Ashford Location The Reach, Westeros Type Castle and town Population Rulers House Ashford Religion The Faith of the Seven Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] 

A map showing the location of Ashford on the continent of Westeros. "We tried to take Ashford Castle in the Reach but the Tyrells beat us back." ―Robert Baratheon[src] 

Ashford is a settlement in the Reach, the region controlled by House Tyrell of Highgarden. It is located on the Cockleswhent river north east of Highgarden. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ashford is the seat of House Ashford. It consists of a castle, a surrounding town and a large meadow nearby which is a perfect location for tournaments. 

Ashford is the site of two important events in the history of the Seven Kingdoms. In 209 AL Ashford was the site of a tournament where the much-storied knight Ser Duncan the Tall first began his rise to fame and where he first met his even more famous companion, Egg. Prince Baelor 'Breakspear' Targaryen, the king's heir, was also accidentally killed during this tourney, changing the future history of the Seven Kingdoms. 

In 281 AL, during Robert's Rebellion, Ashford was the site of a major battle and Robert Baratheon's only notable defeat. The army of House Tyrell was advancing towards the Stormlands with the intention of destroying Robert's army and taking Storm's End. Robert elected to fight a field battle rather than withstand siege and intercepted the Tyrell army near Ashford. Robert attacked the Tyrell vanguard (which Robert's army outnumbered at a local level, since the bulk of the Tyrell army had not yet arrived). However, Lord Randyll Tarly, commanding the Tyrell van, withstood the attack and drove the Baratheon army from the field. Robert's army was defeated, but managed to withdraw in good order northwards towards the Riverlands. The Tyrell army was commanded to march on to Storm's End (held by Stannis Baratheon) and besiege it rather than pursue Robert. This proved unwise, as Robert was able to combine his army with those of the Starks, Arryns and Tullys, enabling him to ultimately triumph in the war. See alsoEdit Ashford on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, Highgarden entry v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Ashford Lord: Heir: Seat: Ashford Lands: The Reach Title(s): Lord of Ashford Overlord: House Tyrell v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Reach Regional Capital: 

Highgarden Settlements: 

Old Oak · Red Lake · Goldengrove · Bitterbridge · Tumbleton · Grassy Vale · Cider Hall · Ashford · Horn Hill · Brightwater Keep · Bandallon · Honeyholt · Oldtown (The Citadel · The Hightower) · Uplands · Blackcrown · Three Towers · Sun House · The Arbor Rivers: 

Honeywine · Mander · Blueburn · Cockleswhent Islands: 

Shield Islands · The Arbor Geographic Features: 

Redwyne Straits Roads 

Roseroad · Searoad · Goldroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Ashford?oldid=217301"