Astapor Location Slaver's Bay, Essos Type Mercantile city-state Population Ghiscari Rulers King Cleon 
Astapori ruling council (deposed) 
Good Masters (deposed) Religion Ghiscari religion Military Institutions Places of note Plaza of Pride 
Walk of Punishment Date of founding Age Founder Ghiscari Empire [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "We'll be in Astapor by nightfall." ―Ser Jorah Mormont[src] 

A map showing the location of Astapor on the continent of Essos. 

Astapor, also known as the Red City, is the southernmost of the three great city-states of Slaver's Bay and a noted stopping point for ships bound from Qarth to the Free Cities and Westeros. Astapor is home of the infamous Unsullied, eunuch slave-soldiers. Astapor's sigil, like that of the other cities of Slaver's Bay, is that of the harpy, the ancient symbol of the Ghiscari Empire, of which Astapor was once part. Though culturally still identifying itself as Ghiscari, Astapor is an independent city-state and is not aligned with New Ghis, which seeks to restore the Ghiscari Empire, to the south. 

The flag of Astapor bears the Ghiscari harpy holding between its talon a chain with open manacles on both ends. 

People and things from Astapor are known as "Astapori". Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 2Edit 

While in Qarth, Ser Jorah Mormont informs Daenerys Targaryen that he has procured transport on a ship bound for Astapor. However, Daenerys refuses to leave without having first recovered her dragons from the House of the Undying. Season 3Edit 

Daenerys is convinced to travel to Astapor to procure the services of the eunuch slave-army known as the Unsullied. In Astapor she is nearly assassinated by the use of a manticore, but is saved by Ser Barristan Selmy, who pledges his service to her. 

Daenerys later visits the Walk of Punishment, where slaves who have committed transgressions are tortured and put on display as a warning to others. Daenerys attempts to comfort a slave who has been condemned to death with water. &nbsp;He instead begs her to be allowed to die. 

After purchasing the entirety of Unsullied of Astapor, as well as the slave-boys still in training to become Unsullied, Daenerys double crosses the Good Masters. Under her command, the Unsullied put all slaver masters in the city to the sword, sparing only the children, and liberate the slaves, while Drogon, Viserion, and Rhaegal are also unleashed. 

While meeting with Razdal mo Eraz outside of Yunkai, Daenerys demands the release of every slave in the city or she and her army of Unsullied will take it by force. Highly offended, Eraz spits back that Yunkai is not Astapor or Qarth, and that the Yunkai'i have "powerful friends" who would take great pleasure in bringing Daenerys down. Season 4Edit 

Ser Jorah Mormont reports that the council she left behind to rule the city in place of the Good Masters has been overthrown by a butcher named Cleon, who has installed himself as king. Notable residentsEdit Cleon, a former butcher and now King of Astapor. {Kraznys mo Nakloz}, one of the Good Masters of Astapor. Burned alive by the dragon Drogon during the Sack of Astapor. Missandei, his slave and translator, a Naathi. Now a handmaiden to Daenerys Targaryen Grey Worm, of the Unsullied. Now a follower of Daenerys Targaryen. {Greizhen mo Ullhor}, another Good Master. Killed during the Sack of Astapor. GalleryEdit Astapor as it is depicted in the title sequence. The harpy, the sigil of Astapor, as it appears in the title sequence. The Walk of Punishment along Astapor's harbor. A giant Ghiscari harpy atop a building in Astapor 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Astapor, like its sister-cities of Yunkai and Meereen, is culturally and historically Ghiscari in origin, until the defeat of the old Ghiscari Empire by Valyria thousands of years ago. Following the Doom of Valyria, Astapor, Yunkai, and Meereen have reestablished their Ghiscari traditions, but have not joined the resurgent Ghiscari nation based at New Ghis. 

Astapor is located at the mouth of the Worm River. It is ruled by the Good Masters, slave-owners and traders who have become immensely wealthy. They live on large, stepped pyramids similar to those in Meereen, but not as large. It is called "the Red City" for the red brick its buildings are made of. The city contains fighting pits and slave markets. 

Slaves who displease their masters are tortured and displayed in the Plaza of Punishment, which is the first place a new slave brought into the city sees. 

The trade of slaves is usually conducted in the Plaza of Pride, an open market where the slavers take their customers to view their purchases. In the center of the plaza stands a red brick fountain with a hammered bronze version of the Astapori harpy standing in its center. 

Of the three slaver-cities, Astapor is bigger than Yunkai, but Meereen has a bigger population than Astapor and Yunkai put together. The population of Astapor is not as big as that of Qarth or Pentos. See alsoEdit Astapor on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ [http://www.makinggameofthrones.com/production-diary/harpy-slavers-bay] ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Astapor entry ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" ↑ "Valar Dohaeris" ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" ↑ "First of His Name" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Slaver's Bay Cities 

Astapor · Yunkai · Meereen · Tolos · Elyria · New Ghis Geography 

Ghiscar · Ghiscari Strait · Black Cliffs · Yaros Seas and rivers 

Gulf of Grief · Summer Sea · Skahazadhan River History: 

Ghiscari Empire · Old Ghis · Ghiscari Wars · Liberation of Slaver's Bay Leadership: 

Good Masters (Astapor) · Wise Masters (Yunkai) · Great Masters (Meereen) Culture: 

Slavery · Unsullied · Tokar · Fighting pits · Harpies · Ghiscari language · Sons of the Harpy · 
Ghiscari religion (Temple of the Graces · Graces) Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Astapor?oldid=232563"