

A map showing the location of the Barrowlands on the continent of Westeros. "Gods, this is country!" ―Robert Baratheon[src] 

The Barrowlands are a region in the North, located to the east of the Rills and southwest of Winterfell. The Kingsroad passes through the eastern edge of the Barrowlands. The town of Barrowton lies within the Barrowlands and is the largest settlement in the area. Contents[show] HistoryEdit 

Robert Baratheon with Eddard Stark in the Barrowlands. Season 1Edit 

Eddard Stark and Robert Baratheon hold a meeting in this area on their way south, discussing the marriage of Daenerys Targaryen to Khal Drogo. Robert is impressed with the countryside. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Barrowlands are so-called for the number of tombs and barrows in the area, extending over a vast territory and dating back to the days of the First Men. 

In the novel A Game of Thrones, Robert and Eddard's meeting is much as in the TV series. However, Robert also asks Eddard why the area is so lightly populated and Eddard jokes that Robert's huge travelling party scared all the people away. See alsoEdit Barrowlands on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Torrhen's Square entry ↑ Winter is Coming (episode) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Barrowlands?oldid=210548"