

A map of the continent of Westeros marking the location of the Bay of Seals in blue. 

The Bay of Seals is a large bay off the north-eastern coast of the continent of Westeros. It is part of the Shivering Sea. The bay runs from the wildling territories beyond the Wall to the Grey Cliffs north-east of Karhold. Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, the eastern-most castle on the Wall, is located on the edge of the bay. The Night's Watch controls the coast southwards for 150 miles (the eastern edge of the Gift). The coast south of that is controlled by House Umber. House Karstark controls much of the southern coast of the bay. 

The islands of Skane and Skagos (amongst others) are located in the bay. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Bay of Seals is reported as being difficult to cross in autumn, as storms make it almost impassable. Ships risk being dashed against the rocky coastline of Skagos if they are not careful. ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Castle Black entry See alsoEdit Bay of Seals on A Wiki of Ice and Fire v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Seas of the Known World Major Seas: 

Sunset Sea · Summer Sea · Narrow Sea · Shivering Sea · Jade Sea Lesser and Inland Seas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · The Bite · Blackwater Bay · Gulf of Grief · Ironman's Bay · Sea of Dorne · Sea of Myrth · Smoking Sea · Sea of Sighs · Shipbreaker Bay Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Bay_of_Seals?oldid=210812"