Bear Island Location The North, Westeros Type Island, wooden keep Population Rulers House Mormont Religion The Old Gods of the Forest Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] Daenerys Targaryen: "What do you pray for, Ser Jorah?" Jorah Mormont: "Home." — Jorah Mormont longing for his home.[src] 

Map showing the location of Bear Island off the north-western coast of Westeros. 

Bear Island is a remote island in the North of Westeros, and home to House Mormont, vassals of House Stark of Winterfell. It lies within the Bay of Ice on the western coast of the North. The island remains relatively poor. It is densely forested with a large bear population which earned the island its name. Contents[show] HistoryEdit 

During the Age of Heroes, Rodrik Stark allegedly won control of the island in a wrestling match with an ironborn. Rodrik gave Bear Island to the Mormonts who have been loyal supporters of the Starks ever since. 

Lord Commander Jeor Mormont of the Night's Watch was born on Bear Island, as was his son, Jorah. Jorah and his wife were forced from his land and fled into exile after he sold poachers he had caught on Bear Island. Following Jorah's disgrace, Jeor's younger sister Maege Mormont became Lady of Bear Island. Season 1Edit 

When Daenerys Targaryen first met Ser Jorah Mormont he states he is from Bear Island. Later Jorah relates to Daenerys about how Eddard Stark forced him from his lands. When asked by Daenerys what he longs for, Jorah simply replies "home". 

When Jon Snow receives Longclaw, the ancestral Valyrian steel sword of House Mormont, Lord Commander Jeor Mormont recalls how when Jorah brought dishonor on their house, he had the grace to leave their sword at Bear Island before fleeing. Season 5Edit 

Lyanna Mormont's reply to Stannis Baratheon 

Stannis Baratheon has come to Castle Black and sends ravens to all Northern Lords to ask them to join his cause. Lyanna Mormont, the 10-year-old daughter of Maege Mormont and Lady of Bear Island, sends back a rebuff that reads: "Bear Island knows no king but the King in the North, whose name is Stark." In the booksEdit 

According to legend, in ancient times, Bear Island was ruled by House Woodfoot, who were wiped out when the ironborn conquered the island. Bear Island is home mostly to woodsmen, crofters and fisherfolk, as well as the bears that give the island its name. 

There is a warrior woman tradition on Bear Island, because with all of the husbands and fathers away for long periods of time on fishing boats or working in the fields, the local women of the island had to be prepared to defend their homes and children from raids at a moment's notice (raids from both the ironborn further south, and from wildlings who avoided the Wall entirely by using boats to cross the bay from the Frozen Shore on the other side). 

The Mormonts' seat is a huge wooden hall, defended by an earthen palisade. According to the semi-canonical A Song of Ice and Fire Roleplaying Campaign Guide: A Game of Thrones Edition from Green Ronin Publishing it is named Mormont Keep. See alsoEdit Bear Island on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1: episode 4 map, Bear Island entry ↑ "The North (Histories &amp; Lore)" ↑ "Winter is Coming" ↑ 4.0 4.1 "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "Valyrian Steel (Histories &amp; Lore)" ↑ "The House of Black and White" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Mormont Lord: Lady Lyanna Mormont Heir: Unknown Seat: Bear Island Lands: The North Title(s): Lord of Bear Island Current members: Jorah Mormont · Lynesse Mormont Deceased members: Jeor Mormont · Maege Mormont Overlord: House Stark v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Bear_Island?oldid=209914"