"The fighting didn't stop until Dorne married into the Seven Kingdoms, a mere hundred years ago. But still the houses of the Stormlands, such as the Dondarrions, guard the Boneway, the mountain pass into the Marches, against any Dornish incursion." ―Brienne of Tarth[src] 

The Boneway is a pass through the Red Mountains that connects Dorne to the Dornish Marches in the Stormlands. It is one of only two major passes through the Red Mountains, linking Dorne to the Stormlands and the Reach. The other major pass is the Prince's Pass, located further west. The Boneway runs relatively close to the east coast. 

Blackhaven, the castle-seat of House Dondarrion sits along the pass, on the Stormlands side of the border. The Dondarrions and other Marcher lords from the Stormlands have fought numerous border wars over the centuries in the mountain passes with Dornish lords from the south. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Boneway is the colloquial name for the Stone Way. Its Dornish side is guarded from the castle Yronwood, the seat of House Yronwood, which holds the title of Warden of the Stone Way. The path runs north past the Wyl and ends at Summerhall in the Dornish Marches. 

The Boneway is one of two major passes through the Red Mountains, the other being the Prince's Pass further west. The Boneway might be thought of as the more important of the two, given that it is closer to the coast and Storm's End (hence why Brienne's animated Histories &amp; Lore featurette calls it "the" pass through the mountains). See alsoEdit Boneway on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ The Stormlands (Histories &amp; Lore) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Dorne Regional Capital: 

Sunspear Settlements: 

Planky Town · Vulture's Roost · Wyl · Blackmont · Kingsgrave · Starfall · Skyreach · Yronwood · Sandstone · Hellholt · Vaith · The Tor · Godsgrace · Saltshore · Lemonwood · Water Gardens · Ghost Hill Rivers: 

Greenblood (Scourge · Vaith) · Torentine · Brimstone Mountains: 

Red Mountains Roads: 

Boneway · Prince's Pass v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Stormlands Regional Capital: 

Storm's End Settlements: 

Felwood · Haystack Hall · Bronzegate · Evenfall Hall · Summerhall · Griffin's Roost · Rain House · Mistwood · Stonehelm · Blackhaven · Crow's Nest · Nightsong Geographic Features: 

Dornish Marches · Estermont · The Kingswood · Rainwood · Wendwater River · Shipbreaker Bay · Tarth Roads 

Kingsroad · Boneway · Prince's Pass v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Roads of Westeros Major highways Goldroad · Kingsroad · Roseroad · Searoad · River Road/Eastern Road Mountain passes into Dorne Boneway · Prince's Pass Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Boneway?oldid=231912"