Castle Stokeworth Location The Crownlands, Westeros Type Castle Population Rulers House Stokeworth Religion Faith of the Seven Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] Tyrion: "She still gets Castle Stokeworth when her father dies." Bronn: " She does... unless she happens to perish before her father, then Lollys gets the castle. What? Ladies fall from their horses and snap their pretty necks all the time." — Bronn reveals his plan to "acquire" Castle Stokeworth to Tyrion Lannister[src] 

A map showing the location of Castle Stokeworth on the continent of Westeros. 

Castle Stokeworth is a castle in the Crownlands. It is the seat of House Stokeworth, a vassal House sworn directly to the Iron Throne. It is often referred to simply as "Stokeworth". It is located northeast of King's Landing, on the road between Rosby and Duskendale. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 4Edit 

Queen Cersei Lannister bribes Ser Bronn not to aid Tyrion by arranging for him to marry Lollys Stokeworth. Tyrion points out that Lollys has an older sister and therefore Castle Stokeworth will pass to her, not to Lollys. Bronn is aware of Lollys's older sister, but Falyse is childless, past forty years old, and barren. Bronn also bluntly implies that he intends to arrange for an "accident" to befall Falyse, so that after her death Lollys will inherit Castle Stokeworth. Season 5Edit 

Lollys Stokeworth and her newly betrothed Ser Bronn of the Blackwater walk on the grounds outside the castle, as Lollys talks excitedly about plans for their upcoming wedding. Bronn muses that he never thought he'd end up settling down in a fine a place as this. Confused, Lollys corrects him that after her mother (Tanda Stokeworth) dies, the castle will pass to her sister, because she is older than Lollys. She also says that her sister hates her, calls her names, and even still she pulls Lollys's hair when she thinks their mother isn't looking. Bronn assures Lollys that her sister is mean, and mean people always end up getting what's coming to them - clearly still holding to his plan to surreptitiously kill off Falyse after he marries Lollys. 

They then see that Jaime Lannister has arrived at the castle. He privately informs Bronn that he needs him to accompany a secret mission he is taking to Dorne. To encourage Bronn to go, the Lannisters have now promised Lollys to Wyllis Bracken: Jaime vaguely promises that they will find Bronn a better bride with an even bigger castle, though Bronn is not amused. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, House Stokeworth rules over the eponymous town of Stokeworth. It is located northeast of King's Landing, on the road between Rosby and Duskendale. See alsoEdit Stokeworth on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books)&nbsp;&nbsp; v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Stokeworth Lord: Tanda Stokeworth Heir: Falyse Stokeworth Seat: Castle Stokeworth Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): Lord of Stokeworth Current members: Lollys Stokeworth Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Crownlands Regional Capital: 

King's Landing (Red Keep · Great Sept of Baelor · Guildhall of the Alchemists · Flea Bottom · Dragonpit 
· Mud Gate · King's Gate · Littlefinger's brothel) Settlements: 

Antlers · Rosby · Castle Stokeworth · Duskendale · The Whispers · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Sharp Point · Stonedance· Rook's Rest · Sow's Horn Geographic Features: 

Blackwater Rush · Blackwater Bay · Crackclaw Point · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Spears of the Merling King · The Kingswood Roads 

Kingsroad · Goldroad · Roseroad ReferencesEdit ↑ "Mockingbird" ↑ "The House of Black and White" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Castle_Stokeworth?oldid=225665"