Cave of the three-eyed raven Location Beyond the Wall, Westeros Type Cave Population Rulers Three-eyed raven 
Children of the Forest Religion Old Gods of the Forest Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] 

The cave of the three-eyed raven is a place located&nbsp;Beyond the Wall.&nbsp;It serves as the abode of the greenseer known as the three-eyed raven and a group of children of the forest&nbsp;who protect it and him. 

Above the cave lies an ancient and massive weirwood tree with a face carved on its trunk. The weirwood's roots dig deep into the cave and have merged with the body of the three-eyed raven.&nbsp;The entrance to the cave is protected by the magic of the Children of the Forest and prevents wights from entering it, destroying the undead creatures if they attempt to enter. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 4Edit 

A weirwood tree marks the cave's entrance. Bran was guided to the cave by the three-eyed raven in their shared&nbsp;greensight dreams and when he&nbsp;warged into a weirwood tree that showed him another weirwood tree on a hill, while the raven asked him to look for him in there. Eventually, Bran&nbsp;and his group&nbsp;reach the&nbsp;tree, which is above the cave. However, they are attacked by a group of wights before they can enter. Although Jojen perishes at the hands of a wight and his sister's mercy-killing, Bran, Meera and Hodor are saved by a child of the forest, who quickly leads them into a cave. As the remaining wights try to enter after them, they are blown to pieces, and the child explains that the magic that reanimates them has no power inside. She then leads them through the complex cave system of the root-covered&nbsp;cavern&nbsp;to meet the three-eyed raven. Behind the scenesEdit 

The cave of the three-eyed raven set was built by repurposing and completely redecorating the Dragonstone set. Given that Stannis Baratheon and his followers leave for the Wall in the Season 4 finale, the production team didn't need to keep the set as Dragonstone afterwards. In the booksEdit 

Loosely approximate location of the cave of the three-eyed raven - due north from Craster's Keep, and roughly east from the Fist of the First Men. 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the cave of the three-eyed crow appears in the fifth book, though its location is not specified. The Lands of Ice and Fire map collection places it within the Haunted Forest, east of the Fist of the First Men and somewhat near the headwaters of the Antler River. Very loosely, if one draws a line straight east from the Fist of the First Men, and another line straight north from Craster's Keep, the cave is in the general area where the two lines intersect. Logically, it isn't as drastically far north as the distant northern edge of the map or the mountain valley of the Thenns - the crippled Bran Stark and his companions could not have traveled such a vast distance on foot. 

The cave is actually a great cavern under a wooded hill, deep within a system of caves. The three-eyed crow is seated on a weirwood throne in the great cavern, by an abyss, attended to by the remaining Children of the Forest. See alsoEdit Cave of the three-eyed crow on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Beyond the Wall Settlements: 

White Tree · Craster's Keep · Cave of the three-eyed raven · Hardhome Geographic Features: 

Haunted Forest · Antler River · Storrold's Point · Fist of the First Men · Osric's Hill · Frostfangs · Skirling Pass · Thenn · Milkwater · Frozen Shore · Lands of Always Winter ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Lion and the Rose" ↑ "The Children" ↑  Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Cave_of_the_three-eyed_raven?oldid=227228"