

A map showing the location of Crackclaw Point on the continent of Westeros. 

Crackclaw Point is a region in the Crownlands. It is a large peninsula north-east of King's Landing, on the east coast of Westeros. It extends into the Narrow Sea, forming the northern shore of Blackwater Bay. Claw Isle lies just off the eastern edge of Crackclaw Point, with Dragonstone located off the south coast. The ruins known as the Whispers are located at the tip of the peninsula. 

House Brune is a poor vassal House from Crackclaw Point. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Crackclaw Point is a remote and windswept finger of land jutting into the sea between Blackwater Bay and the Bay of Crabs. It is not regularly travelled by outsiders. The region is full of bogs and pine trees. 

The people of Crackclaw Point are descended from the First Men. Each valley and hill has its own lord. During the Andal invasion, the terrain favored the defenders, resulting in several bloody defeats until the Andals intermarried into the native families. Even so, the region remained independently-minded. Both the Celtigars of Claw Isle and the Darklyns of Duskendale attempted to conquer Crackclaw Point at different times but were defeated. On several occasions, local champions and lords have tried to unify the region, but such attempts have never survived their deaths. 

During the Targaryen invasion, Visenya Targaryen, sister-wife of Aegon the Conqueror, flew to Crackclaw Point on her dragon and treated with the native lords with respect and honor. They allied with the Targaryens and their troops formed an important component of the Targaryen armies during the early days of their invasion, when they had few allies and only a small force. Crackclaw warriors presumably fought on the Field of Fire. 

During the long reign of the Targaryens, the people of Crackclaw Point remained fierce Targaryen loyalists, many of them fighting at the Battle of the Trident on the side of Prince Rhaegar. Since King Robert Baratheon's accession, the region has been neglected by the Iron Throne. ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, King's Landing entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, King's Landing entry See alsoEdit Crackclaw Point on A Wiki of Ice and Fire v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Crownlands Regional Capital: 

King's Landing (Red Keep · Great Sept of Baelor · Guildhall of the Alchemists · Flea Bottom · Dragonpit 
· Mud Gate · King's Gate · Littlefinger's brothel) Settlements: 

Antlers · Rosby · Castle Stokeworth · Duskendale · The Whispers · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Sharp Point · Stonedance· Rook's Rest · Sow's Horn Geographic Features: 

Blackwater Rush · Blackwater Bay · Crackclaw Point · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Spears of the Merling King · The Kingswood Roads 

Kingsroad · Goldroad · Roseroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Crackclaw_Point?oldid=211417"