

Map showing the approximate location of the Flatlands on the continent of Essos. 

A Dothraki khalasar marching east from Pentos across the Flatlands. 

A large horse-drawn wheelhouse takes Tyrion and Varys out of Pentos through the Flatlands. 

The Flatlands is a region on the continent of Essos, located to the east of Westeros beyond the Narrow Sea. The Flatlands is a fertile area of open fields and plains, located around the Free City of Pentos and responsible for feeding it. Many magisters and nobles of the cities have estates on the Flatlands. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 1Edit 

After the wedding of Daenerys Targaryen and Khal Drogo in Pentos, Daenerys, Drogo, and his khalasar ride back east through the Flatlands. Season 5Edit 

When Tyrion Lannister and Varys leave Pentos heading south to Volantis, they pass through the Flatlands in a massive wheelhouse drawn by a large team of horses. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Flatlands are bordered by the upper reaches of the River Rhoyne to the east, the Velvet Hills to the north and the Golden Fields to the south-east. The Dothraki have easy access to the Flatlands and find riding across it easy, so Pentosi nobles pay them heavy tribute so as to ensure they do not loot or sack any of the estates or villages in the area. 

The Flatlands used to be the southern part of Andalos, the kingdom of the Andals before they migrated to Westeros 6,000 years ago.When Tyrion Lannister passes through the region on his way from Pentos to Volantis, as a student of history he notes that his own Andal ancestors lived in these lands thousands of years before. When he has to come up with a pseudonym while traveling through the area, he jokingly calls himself "Hugor Hill", after the legendary Hugor of the Hill, an Andal king of the region (who for all he knows might be his direct ancestor). See alsoEdit Flatlands on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, Braavos entry ↑ "The Kingsroad" ↑ "The House of Black and White" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Free Cities Cities 

Braavos · Lorath · Lys · Myr · Norvos · Qohor · Pentos · Tyrosh · Volantis (Selhorys · Valysar · Volon Therys) Ruined Rhoynar cities: 

Ny Sar · Sar Mell · Chroyane Border regions 

Disputed Lands · Stepstones Regions and Geography 

Andalos . Braavosian Coastlands · Flatlands · Forest of Qohor · Golden Fields · Hills of Norvos · Orange Shore · The Axe Seas 

Narrow Sea · Sea of Myrth . Shivering Sea · Summer Sea Rivers and Lakes 

Dagger Lake · Rhoyne · Qhoyne Culture 

Iron Bank of Braavos · Currency · Faceless Men · Mercenaries · Pleasure houses · Slavery · Magister · Archon · Cyvasse · R'hllor, the Lord of Light · High Valyrian language · Low Valyrian language Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Flatlands?oldid=233009"