

A map showing the location of the Forest of Qohor on the continent of Essos. 

The Forest of Qohor is an extremely large area of woodland and forest on the eastern continent of Essos. It borders the Free Cities region to the east and the Dothraki sea to the northwest. The Shivering Sea lies to the north. It contains the headlands of the Qhoyne river. 

The Free City of Qohor is located on the forest's western edge. Despite its sheer size, the forest presents no significant obstacle to Dothraki khalasars, which can pass through the forest with impunity. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 1Edit 

The khalasar of Khal Drogo passes through the Forest of Qohor on its way from Pentos to Vaes Dothrak. Based on comments by Ser Jorah Mormont, it is possible that the immensely tall forest of reeds that Daenerys Targaryen orders the khalasar to halt in is part of the Forest of Qohor. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Forest of Qohor is traversed by Drogo's khalasar, taking half a month to pass through its eaves. The trees are huge, with barks as big as city gates and possessing leaves that give off a golden hue in the sunlight. Lemurs, spotted tigers, and great elks are found within the forest. See alsoEdit Forest of Qohor on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Braavos entry ↑ Lord Snow v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Free Cities Cities 

Braavos · Lorath · Lys · Myr · Norvos · Qohor · Pentos · Tyrosh · Volantis (Selhorys · Valysar · Volon Therys) Ruined Rhoynar cities: 

Ny Sar · Sar Mell · Chroyane Border regions 

Disputed Lands · Stepstones Regions and Geography 

Andalos . Braavosian Coastlands · Flatlands · Forest of Qohor · Golden Fields · Hills of Norvos · Orange Shore · The Axe Seas 

Narrow Sea · Sea of Myrth . Shivering Sea · Summer Sea Rivers and Lakes 

Dagger Lake · Rhoyne · Qhoyne Culture 

Iron Bank of Braavos · Currency · Faceless Men · Mercenaries · Pleasure houses · Slavery · Magister · Archon · Cyvasse · R'hllor, the Lord of Light · High Valyrian language · Low Valyrian language Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Forest_of_Qohor?oldid=222824"