The Free Cities Location western Essos Formerly Colonies of the Valyrian Freehold Type Mercantile city-states Geography Hills and river valleys, temperate (north) 
Coastal plains, sub-tropical (south) Population Rulers Various Religion Lord of Light, various others. Culture Various Military Regional capital Cities Braavos • Lorath • Lys • Myr • Norvos • Pentos • Qohor • Tyrosh • Volantis Towns Ar Noy • Ny Sar • Sar Mell • Selhorys • Valysar • Volon Therys Villages Castles Places of note The Axe • Braavosian Coastlands • Disputed Lands • Flatlands • Forest of Qohor • Hills of Norvos • Orange Shore • Rhoyne • Sea of Myrth • Stepstones Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "Frankly, the nine of them are more alike than they would care to admit. They hire the same soldiers, to fight the same wars, for the same rulers... the rich, be they called Magisters, Archons, or what have you. When a Dothraki khalasar approaches, they give the same tribute to avoid the same sacking. For thousands of years, the disgraced of Westeros have rained east to pool in the Free Cities." ―Ser Jorah Mormont[src] 

A map of the western Free Cities, showing their location just across the Narrow Sea from Westeros. 

The Free Cities are nine powerful, independent city-states located across the Narrow Sea to the east of Westeros. They are located on the western end of the massive eastern continent of Essos, and are in extensive trade contact with the Seven Kingdoms. The overall area of the Free Cities and their respective territories are roughly equal in size to Westeros south of the Neck. 

Each of the nine Free Cities has its own distinctive and unique history and culture. Contents[show] HistoryEdit 

The Free Cities were founded centuries ago as colonies of the Valyrian Freehold, but when Valyria and its dragonlords were destroyed in the Doom of Valyria four hundred years ago, its empire fragmented in a chaotic period known as the Century of Blood. When the dust settled, nine independent city-states were left in western Essos. 

Braavos is the one major exception among them: it was not founded as a colony by the Valyrians, but as a refuge by escaped slaves who fled from Valyria. After the dragonlords died in the Doom, Braavos was free to reveal itself to the world. Volantis is the oldest and most populous of the Free Cities, and for a time in the Century of Blood it tried to conquer and reunify the others, but eventually they formed alliances against it and Volantis was subdued. 

Volantis was originally the most powerful of the Free Cities, and while still formidable, it was gradually eclipsed by the growing power of Braavos. The hidden city was not devastated by the loss of central Valyrian control the way that the other eight Free Cities were, so it gradually increased in strength while they were tearing themselves apart in civil wars. Braavos is now considered to be more or less the most powerful of the Free Cities, with extensive control of sea trade and large fleets - in contrast with how Volantis has the largest and strongest land armies. Most importantly, it is the home of the Iron Bank of Braavos, which became the largest financial institution in either Essos or Westeros, bigger than the banks of the other eight Free Cities put together. 

The Free Cities are independent city-states, and have a much more urbanized and mercantile culture than Westeros does. Slavery is also commonly practiced in all of the Free Cities - except for Braavos, which was founded by escaped slaves. For centuries, it has been common for exiles from the losing sides of wars in Westeros to flee across the Narrow Sea to the Free Cities. The Nine Free CitiesEdit 

A map showing the location of the nine Free Cities in the continent of Essos. 

Pentos was the first of the nine Free Cities to appear on-screen in the TV series, at the beginning of Season 1. It reappeared at the beginning of Season 5. 

Braavos was the second Free City to appear on-screen, first one brief appearance in Season 4, and then extensively featured throughout Season 5. 

Volantis was the third Free City to appear on-screen, in Season 5's "High Sparrow". Braavos: the most powerful and northerly of the Free Cities, led by the Sealord. The city is scattered across numerous islands in a sheltered lagoon, connected by bridges and an extensive network of canals. It is home to the influential Iron Bank of Braavos and the secretive assassins' guild known as the Faceless Men. The city is noted for its religious tolerance and hatred of slavery. Lorath: considered the least-known and least-powerful Free City, located on an island southeast of Braavos, in the Shivering Sea. Lys: located on an island in the Summer Sea, close to the Stepstones and protected by a formidable navy. Lys is a city of vice, famed for its pleasure houses, which produce the most skilled prostitutes in the known world. Its people tend to be fair skinned, blonde haired, and blue eyed. Myr: a seaport located close to the Disputed Lands and on an arm of the Narrow Sea known as the Sea of Myrth. Noted for its skilled craftsmen and their products, particularly optical lenses and fine lace. Lys and Myr have been bitter rivals for centuries, perpetually fighting over the disputed lands. Its people tend to be dusky skinned and dark haired. Norvos: a major inland city, located on the Noyne River northeast of Pentos. It is situated in the hill country in the north of Essos, known as the Hills of Norvos. The Bearded Priests of Norvos rule over the city as a theocracy. Norvos is renowned for its axes. Pentos: a major seaport, land-based and vulnerable to Dothraki incursions from the continental interior. Among other items, it is frequently noted for its trade in cheeses. Nominally ruled by the Prince of Pentos, true power is held by a council of merchant magisters. Qohor: a major inland city, located in the immense Forest of Qohor near the edge of the Dothraki Sea, east of Norvos on the Qhoyne River. Noted for its immensely skilled blacksmiths, who can even reforge Valyrian steel. Qohor maintains a garrison of Unsullied warrior-eunuchs which it buys from Slaver's Bay to defend itself against the Dothraki. Tyrosh: a major seaport and mercantile city, ruled by the Archon. Tyroshi are known for extravagant clothes, flashy armor, and rich tastes. Tyrosh is located on an island close to the Stepstones, and is thus the Free City closest to Westeros. Due to its location between the Stepstones, Disputed Lands, and Westeros, it is often seen as a major hub for hiring the services of various professional sellsword companies, to serve in the various conflicts of these different regions. Volantis: the southeastern-most of the Free Cities and the largest, most populous and most corrupt, ruled by the Triarchs of Volantis. Noted for its immense slave markets and Valyrian traditions. Volantis was originally the most powerful of the Free Cities but its strength was sapped in the Century of Blood, leading to it being narrowly edged out by Braavos. Volantis is built on the main mouth of the immense Rhoyne River, with numerous tributaries of the Rhoyne forming a defensive barrier to the east that protects the city from the Dothraki. The major trade routes from Westeros and the rest of the Free Cities to lands farther east - such as Slaver's Bay, the Jade Sea, Qarth and Asshai - all pass through Volantis. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there are nine Free Cities: Braavos, Pentos, Norvos, Qohor, Lorath, Tyrosh, Lys, Myr, and Volantis. Tyrosh, Lorath and Lys are located on islands off the coast, while Norvos and Qohor are inland, roughly east of Pentos. The rest are major seaports. 

Aside from Braavos, the Free Cities were colonies of the mighty Valyrian Freehold and gained their independence after the Doom of Valyria. As Martin has stated that the Valyrian Empire is essentially his fantasy world's equivalent of the Roman Empire, the Free Cities are essentially his equivalent of the medieval Italian city-states (the coastal ones that have a mediterranean climate; Norvos and Qohor might be more like other romance regions in medieval France/Germany, etc.) 

Officially, the term "Free City" refers to the fact that their founders purchased contracts from the Valyrian government to obtain limited self-government over their own internal affairs, though broadly the Valyrian dragonlords still set their external policies (such as the wars with the Rhoynar people). Because they already had at least some self-governing apparatus, they survived the chaos following the Doom of Valyria much better than many direct colonies which were totally dependent on Valyria itself. Only a few of these direct colonies which were not "Free Cities" survived, in the Valyrian Peninsula itself: Mantarys, Tolos, and Elyria. 

Braavos in the far north was founded by escaped slaves fleeing Valyrian tyranny. As a result it technically wasn't a "Free City of Valyria", but gets called one and lumped in with the rest by tradition - for this reason it is sometimes known as the "Bastard son of Valyria". In terms of size, Volantis is physically the largest city and the most populous, but Braavos is now the richest and most powerful. Volantis has the largest army, but Braavos has the largest navy and greatest financial power. 

Lys and Myr are perpetual rivals, frequently warring over the Disputed Lands to the west of the River Rhoyne, as well as the Stepstones. Volantis and Tyrosh are sometimes reluctantly pulled into these wars. Volantis, at the mouth of the Rhoyne, is a major slave-trading center and a major stop for travelers heading from Westeros and the Free Cities to distant Slaver's Bay. The Rhoyne and its numerous tributaries form a substantial trade and transport link through the interior of the landmass. See alsoEdit Free Cities on A Wiki of Ice and Fire HBO Viewer's Guide ReferencesEdit ↑ The Free Cities (Histories &amp; Lore) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Free Cities Cities 

Braavos · Lorath · Lys · Myr · Norvos · Qohor · Pentos · Tyrosh · Volantis (Selhorys · Valysar · Volon Therys) Ruined Rhoynar cities: 

Ny Sar · Sar Mell · Chroyane Border regions 

Disputed Lands · Stepstones Regions and Geography 

Andalos . Braavosian Coastlands · Flatlands · Forest of Qohor · Golden Fields · Hills of Norvos · Orange Shore · The Axe Seas 

Narrow Sea · Sea of Myrth . Shivering Sea · Summer Sea Rivers and Lakes 

Dagger Lake · Rhoyne · Qhoyne Culture 

Iron Bank of Braavos · Currency · Faceless Men · Mercenaries · Pleasure houses · Slavery · Magister · Archon · Cyvasse · R'hllor, the Lord of Light · High Valyrian language · Low Valyrian language Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Free_Cities?oldid=233087"