

A map showing the location of the Frozen Shore on the continent of Westeros. "On the Frozen Shore, so deep is the snow that men ride chariots made of walrus bones pulled by packs of dogs." ―Tormund[src] 

The Frozen Shore is the name given to the northern coastline of the Bay of Ice, located beyond the Wall in the far northwest of Westeros. It is inhabited by wildlings. It is separated from the Haunted Forest and the Wall by the mountain range known as the Frostfangs. The Skirling Pass links the Haunted Forest to the Frozen Shore. The Lands of Always Winter lie to the north. Contents[show] PeopleEdit 

Wildling tribes from the Frozen Shore ride walrus-bone sleds pulled by dogs (click to enlarge). 

The snows are so deep on the Frozen Shore, and there is so little plant life, that the wildling tribes that live there travel about by riding in sleds made from walrus bones, and pulled by packs of dogs. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Frozen Shore is inhabited by clans of warriors who ride chariots made out of walrus bone and pulled by dogs. The clans of the Frozen Shore warred incessantly with the Ice-river clans to their north, until the King-beyond-the-Wall, Mance Rayder, negotiated a truce. Frozen Shore warriors now fight in his army. 

The men of the Frozen Shore aren't too isolated from the other wildling tribes, despite living on the west side of the Frostfangs, because they can move along the coast to bypass the mountains. Still, the lands they live in are harsh, and they survive mostly on resources from the sea. 

In the past, raiders from the Frozen Shore have raided Bear Island to the south. See alsoEdit Frozen Shore on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Frostfangs entry ↑ The Nations of the North" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Beyond the Wall Settlements: 

White Tree · Craster's Keep · Cave of the three-eyed raven · Hardhome Geographic Features: 

Haunted Forest · Antler River · Storrold's Point · Fist of the First Men · Osric's Hill · Frostfangs · Skirling Pass · Thenn · Milkwater · Frozen Shore · Lands of Always Winter Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Frozen_Shore?oldid=221169"