

A map showing the location of Gods Eye on the continent of Westeros. "Ser Gregor will head out with five hundred riders and set the Riverlands on fire from Gods Eye to the Red Fork." ―Tywin Lannister[src] 

Gods Eye is an immense lake, the largest inland body of water in Westeros. It is located in the heart of the continent, in the southeast of the Riverlands. Small fishing villages dot its shores, but the most significant settlement is the ill-omened castle of Harrenhal, located on the north shore. 

Gods Eye feeds a river which is a tributary of the Blackwater Rush. The Isle of Faces is located within Gods Eye. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 1Edit 

Tywin Lannister tells his son Tyrion Lannister that following the destruction of the western Lannister army-group in the Riverlands at the Battle of the Whispering Wood, the eastern Lannister army led by Tywin himself will fall back from the location of the Battle of the Green Fork and regroup at Harrenhal, on the north shore of Gods Eye lake. Tywin specifically says that to cover the retreat of the main army, he is sending out Ser Gregor Clegane and his riders to set fire to the farms and fields of the Riverlands everywhere between the Red Fork of the Trident river and Gods Eye lake. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Isle of Faces is reputed to be located in the center of Gods Eye, the home of "greenseers" who keep the traditions and secrets of the long-vanished Children of the Forest. The island is said to be home to many weirwood trees. The Isle has a fell reputation and most avoid it. 

Gods Eye feeds a tributary of the Blackwater Rush, but does not appear to be navigable by large ships. Another river, the Rippledown Rill, also feeds the lake. See alsoEdit Gods Eye on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Fire and Blood" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Riverlands Regional Capital: 

Riverrun Settlements: 

Seagard · Wendish Town · Fairmarket · Riverrun · The Twins · Harrenhal · Raventree Hall · Stone Hedge · Crossroads Inn · High Heart · Acorn Hall · Maidenpool · Pinkmaiden · Stoney Sept Rivers and Lakes: 

The Trident · Blackwater Rush · Gods Eye Geographic Features: 

The Neck · Ironman's Bay · Cape of Eagles · Whispering Wood · Isle of Faces · Hollow Hill Roads 

Kingsroad · River Road/Eastern Road · Goldroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Gods_Eye?oldid=211418"