Guildhall of the Alchemists Location King's Landing, Westeros Type Guild headquarters Population Rulers Alchemists' Guild Religion Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] 

The Guildhall of the Alchemists is the headquarters and training center of the Alchemists' Guild in the city of King's Landing. It is located underground, beneath Rhaenys' Hill. 

Beneath the guildhall are bare stone cells where Acolytes prepare Wildfire employing the order's secret methods, which they boast is "ancient magic". However, should an Acolyte accidentally cause the wildfire to ignite, the roof of the chamber is "spelled" to collapse, releasing a large mass of sand to quell the fire by drowning it - and burying the unwary Acolyte along the way. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 2Edit 

Tyrion Lannister visits the Guildhall after Lancel Lannister informs him the Guild has been preparing wildfire at the behest of Queen Cersei. GalleryEdit A vault in the Guildhall of the Alchemists containing thousands of jars of wildfire Guildhall chambers are "spelled" to collapse should an Acolyte accidentally ignite the Substance. Wildfire vault door concept art. 
Add a photo to this gallery In the books Edit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Guildhall of the Alchemists is the center of the Alchemists' Guild. It is located at the foot of Visenya's Hill, along the Street of Sisters in King's Landing. The Guildhall is made of black marble, a warren of twists and turns. 

Wildfire, the material that makes the Alchemists' Guild infamous, is prepared in stone cells beneath the guildhall. Above each cell is a room filled with sand. The floor below has protective enchantments placed upon it. Any fire within the cell will cause both floors to fall and the sand to drop, smothering the fire instantly. See also Edit Guildhall of the Alchemists on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO Season 2 Viewers Guide - Beyond the Houses ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Crownlands Regional Capital: 

King's Landing (Red Keep · Great Sept of Baelor · Guildhall of the Alchemists · Flea Bottom · Dragonpit 
· Mud Gate · King's Gate · Littlefinger's brothel) Settlements: 

Antlers · Rosby · Castle Stokeworth · Duskendale · The Whispers · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Sharp Point · Stonedance· Rook's Rest · Sow's Horn Geographic Features: 

Blackwater Rush · Blackwater Bay · Crackclaw Point · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Spears of the Merling King · The Kingswood Roads 

Kingsroad · Goldroad · Roseroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Guildhall_of_the_Alchemists?oldid=210331"