

A map showing the location of the Hills of Norvos on the continent of Essos. 

The Hills of Norvos are an extensive range of tall hills and mountains located at the north-western end of the continent of Essos. They extend from the mainland just south of Braavos along the north coast as far east as the headland known as the Axe. The extend south almost as far as Dagger Lake. 

The hills are named for the Free City of Norvos, which is the largest city in the area. The headwaters of most of the major tributaries of the Rhoyne form in these hills. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Hills of Norvos are part of an immense region of hills and mountains which dominates the northwestern corner of Essos. This region extends for several hundred miles from just south of Braavos, encompassing much of the territory east to Qohor and south along the Rhoyne and its tributaries. 

The Velvet Hills near Pentos are an off-shoot of this range (sometimes alternatively called the "Hills of Andalos" in some versions of the text). See alsoEdit Hills of Norvos on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Pentos entry v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Free Cities Cities 

Braavos · Lorath · Lys · Myr · Norvos · Qohor · Pentos · Tyrosh · Volantis (Selhorys · Valysar · Volon Therys) Ruined Rhoynar cities: 

Ny Sar · Sar Mell · Chroyane Border regions 

Disputed Lands · Stepstones Regions and Geography 

Andalos . Braavosian Coastlands · Flatlands · Forest of Qohor · Golden Fields · Hills of Norvos · Orange Shore · The Axe Seas 

Narrow Sea · Sea of Myrth . Shivering Sea · Summer Sea Rivers and Lakes 

Dagger Lake · Rhoyne · Qhoyne Culture 

Iron Bank of Braavos · Currency · Faceless Men · Mercenaries · Pleasure houses · Slavery · Magister · Archon · Cyvasse · R'hllor, the Lord of Light · High Valyrian language · Low Valyrian language Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Hills_of_Norvos?oldid=233013"