This article is about the highway. For the episode of the same name, see "The Kingsroad". 

The Kingsroad in the North, near Winterfell. 

A map showing the location of the Kingsroad on the continent of Westeros. 

The Kingsroad is the longest and grandest highway in the Seven Kingdoms, running from Castle Black at the Wall all the way south to the capital city of King's Landing, passing Winterfell along the way. The Kingsroad runs near Winterfell but not directly through it. A short road from Winterfell leads to a crossroads where travelers from the castle can turn north to go up the Kingsroad to the Wall, or follow the Kingsroad south to King's Landing. 

The Inn at the Crossroads, in the Riverlands, is a popular stop for travelers on the road. It continues south past King's Landing until it terminates at the great castle of Storm's End, the ruling seat of the Stormlands. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 1Edit 

The royal party travels north from King's Landing to Winterfell, spending more than a month on the road. They travel back the same way, stopping at the Crossroads Inn. At the same time, Jon Snow, Tyrion Lannister, and Benjen Stark travel north from Winterfell to Castle Black, where the road terminates. Season 2Edit 

Yoren leads a group of recruits for the Night's Watch north along the Kingsroad, including Gendry, Hot Pie, Lommy Greenhands, and Jaqen H'ghar. Also traveling with them is a disguised Arya Stark (now traveling back north up the Kingsroad), whom Yoren intends to drop off at the safety of Winterfell on their way to the Wall. However, while they are still in the Riverlands south of the Trident River, they are accosted by several Goldcloaks under the command of the Lannisters, who are looking for Gendry. Yoren manages to scare them off but they promise to return with more men. The Goldcloaks follow through on their threat and return with House Lannister soldiers led by Ser Amory Lorch. They attack during the night when the Night's Watch recruits have camped just off the Kingsroad. Yoren and Lommy are killed in the ensuing skirmish, while Arya, Gendry, and the rest are taken as prisoners to the nearby castle of Harrenhal. 

Tywin Lannister's army makes a swift, forced march from Harrenhal down the west side of Gods Eye lake and down the Blackwater River. In the northern Kingswood, his army unites with the army of House Tyrell coming up the Roseroad, and the two united armies continue north along the brief stretch of the Kingsroad between the point where it joins the Roseroad and King's Landing. When they arrive at the city, they decisively defeat the forces of Stannis Baratheon at the Battle of the Blackwater. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Kingsroad extends for over two thousand miles from Storm's End to the Wall. Its quality varies from place to place, but it greatly speeds travel in the northern half of the continent. The road was built over two centuries ago during the reign of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen, using existing roads and pathways where possible. See alsoEdit Kingsroad on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Winterfell entry ↑ "The Kingsroad" ↑ "Winter is Coming" ↑ "The Kingsroad" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "What is Dead May Never Die" ↑ "Blackwater" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Stormlands Regional Capital: 

Storm's End Settlements: 

Felwood · Haystack Hall · Bronzegate · Evenfall Hall · Summerhall · Griffin's Roost · Rain House · Mistwood · Stonehelm · Blackhaven · Crow's Nest · Nightsong Geographic Features: 

Dornish Marches · Estermont · The Kingswood · Rainwood · Wendwater River · Shipbreaker Bay · Tarth Roads 

Kingsroad · Boneway · Prince's Pass v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Crownlands Regional Capital: 

King's Landing (Red Keep · Great Sept of Baelor · Guildhall of the Alchemists · Flea Bottom · Dragonpit 
· Mud Gate · King's Gate · Littlefinger's brothel) Settlements: 

Antlers · Rosby · Castle Stokeworth · Duskendale · The Whispers · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Sharp Point · Stonedance· Rook's Rest · Sow's Horn Geographic Features: 

Blackwater Rush · Blackwater Bay · Crackclaw Point · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Spears of the Merling King · The Kingswood Roads 

Kingsroad · Goldroad · Roseroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Riverlands Regional Capital: 

Riverrun Settlements: 

Seagard · Wendish Town · Fairmarket · Riverrun · The Twins · Harrenhal · Raventree Hall · Stone Hedge · Crossroads Inn · High Heart · Acorn Hall · Maidenpool · Pinkmaiden · Stoney Sept Rivers and Lakes: 

The Trident · Blackwater Rush · Gods Eye Geographic Features: 

The Neck · Ironman's Bay · Cape of Eagles · Whispering Wood · Isle of Faces · Hollow Hill Roads 

Kingsroad · River Road/Eastern Road · Goldroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Wall &amp; The Gift Regional Capital: 

Castle Black Castles along the Wall: 

The Shadow Tower · {Greyguard} · {The Nightfort} · {Deep Lake} · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea The Gift: 

Mole's Town · {Queenscrown} Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals Roads 

Kingsroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Roads of Westeros Major highways Goldroad · Kingsroad · Roseroad · Searoad · River Road/Eastern Road Mountain passes into Dorne Boneway · Prince's Pass Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Kingsroad?oldid=216932"