

The Kingswood is a forest in central Westeros. It begins in the Crownlands immediately south of King's Landing and extends into the Stormlands. The Kingsroad passes through the Kingswood as it runs from King's Landing to Storm's End. The Roseroad meets the Kingsroad within the forest. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 1Edit 

Twenty years prior to the events of the series, an outlaw band known as the Kingswood Brotherhood took up residence in the Kingswood, led by Simon Toyne. They caused significant problems before the Mad King sent a small army to root them out. Ser Barristan Selmy slew Simon Toyne with a counter-riposte, impressing the fifteen-year-old Jaime Lannister (who killed his first man during the battle, beheading him). 

Robert is hunting in the Kingswood, accompanied by Renly Baratheon, Ser Barristan Selmy and his squire, Lancel Lannister. He suffers a life-threatening injury while trying to slay a boar. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Kingswood is an extensive, large and deep forest with many small villages located within its eaves. ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, King's Landing entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, King's Landing entry ↑ Lord Snow ↑ "A Golden Crown" See alsoEdit Kingswood on A Wiki of Ice and Fire 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Crownlands Regional Capital: 

King's Landing (Red Keep · Great Sept of Baelor · Guildhall of the Alchemists · Flea Bottom · Dragonpit 
· Mud Gate · King's Gate · Littlefinger's brothel) Settlements: 

Antlers · Rosby · Castle Stokeworth · Duskendale · The Whispers · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Sharp Point · Stonedance· Rook's Rest · Sow's Horn Geographic Features: 

Blackwater Rush · Blackwater Bay · Crackclaw Point · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Spears of the Merling King · The Kingswood Roads 

Kingsroad · Goldroad · Roseroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Stormlands Regional Capital: 

Storm's End Settlements: 

Felwood · Haystack Hall · Bronzegate · Evenfall Hall · Summerhall · Griffin's Roost · Rain House · Mistwood · Stonehelm · Blackhaven · Crow's Nest · Nightsong Geographic Features: 

Dornish Marches · Estermont · The Kingswood · Rainwood · Wendwater River · Shipbreaker Bay · Tarth Roads 

Kingsroad · Boneway · Prince's Pass Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Kingswood?oldid=211423"