Lannisport Location Westeros, the Westerlands Type Seaport, trading center Population Rulers House Lannister of Lannisport Religion The Faith of the Seven Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "I still remember seeing my father's fleet burn in Lannisport. I believe your uncles were responsible." ―Tyrion Lannister to Theon Greyjoy[src] 

A map showing the location of Lannisport on the continent of Westeros. 

Lannisport is a large city located on the west coast of Westeros, on the Sunset Sea just south of Casterly Rock, the seat of House Lannister. A cadet branch of the Lannisters rules the city in the name of Lord Tywin Lannister. It is a bustling seaport. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 1Edit 

When Lord Commander Jeor Mormont tells Tyrion Lannister that there have been disturbing reports from wildlings trying to flee south of the Wall that they have seen the mythical White Walkers, Tyrion dismisses the notion that these reports are real by saying that the fishermen of Lannisport also report seeing mermaids. 

While trading barbs with Theon, Tyrion Lannister reminisces about the occasion during the Greyjoy Rebellion when Lannisport was attacked by the ships of House Greyjoy. Lord Balon Greyjoy's two brothers burned the Lannister fleet as it sat at anchor, prolonging the war until Lord Stannis Baratheon was able to bring the Royal Fleet around from the east coast of Westeros and smash the Greyjoy fleet in open battle. Tyrion recalls seeing the ships burning. In the booksEdit 

Lannisport is located just south of Casterly Rock and is a large and bustling seaport with a population of approximately 250,000, about half the size of King's Landing. It is the third-largest city in Westeros, after King's Landing and Oldtown. Cersei Lannister and her friends used to sneak into the city while young to see the sights. External linksEdit Lannisport on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Lord Snow" ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Westerlands Regional Capital: 

Casterly Rock Settlements: 

Lannisport · Banefort · The Crag · Castamere · Ashemark · Golden Tooth · Sarsfield · Hornvale · Faircastle · Feastfires · Clegane's Keep · Deep Den · Silverhill · Cornfield · Crakehall · Oxcross Rivers and Lakes: 

Tumblestone · Yellow Fork Geographic Features: 

Ironman's Bay · Fair Isle Roads 

Goldroad · Searoad · River Road Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lannisport?oldid=211183"