

Long Lake marked by name on the Boltons' map in "Kill the Boy". 

A map showing the location of Long Lake on the continent of Westeros. 

Long Lake is a large lake in the North. It is located to the north-east of Winterfell. The Kingsroad runs along its north-western shore on its way to the Wall. House Stark controls the lands to the south-west, House Bolton the lands to the south-east and House Umber the lands to the north and north-east. The lands to the west and north-west are controlled by mountain clans and tribes loyal to Winterfell. Long Lake is also the source of the White Knife River, which flows south into the Shivering Sea. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Long Lake is one of the largest lakes in Westeros. It is of historical importance as the site of a major battle. In 184 AL, one hundred and fourteen years before the start of the novels, the King-beyond-the-Wall, Raymun Redbeard, assembled a large army and, thanks to the laxity of the Night's Watch, was able to scale the Wall at an under-defended location. The army made it as far as the shores of Long Lake, where it was caught between the armies of the Starks coming up from the south and the Umbers pursuing the wildlings from the north. Lord Willam Stark and Lord Harmond Umber, the Drunken Giant, destroyed the wildling host. However, Lord Stark was beheaded. His younger brother, Artos the Implacable, slew Raymun Redbeard and ended the battle. 

The tardy forces of the Night's Watch arrived too late to join in the fighting, so Artos ordered them to bury the dead. The lax Lord Commander,&nbsp;Jack Musgood, became known as 'Sleepy Jack' for allowing the wildling army to cross the Wall unmolested. ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, Last Hearth entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Karhold entry See alsoEdit Long Lake on A Wiki of Ice and Fire 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Long_Lake?oldid=211007"