Pentos Location The Free Cities, Essos Type Mercantile city-state Population Rulers The Prince of Pentos 
Magisters Religion Mixed Military Institutions Places of note Magister Illyrio Mopatis' manse Date of founding Age Founder The Valyrian Freehold [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "Pentos is the most ruthless. The Magisters make a great show of choosing the Prince of Pentos from the Great Families, and granting him the powers of trade, justice and war... as long as he checks with them first." ―Ser Jorah Mormont discusses the Free Cities.[src] 

Map showing the location of Pentos on the continent of Essos. 

Khal Drogo of the Dothraki arrives in Pentos, with a reception party of Pentoshi magisters at right. 

Pentos is one of the Free Cities, located on the western coastline of Essos, across the Narrow Sea to the east of Westeros. It is a large, rich city-state of merchant lords. People from Pentos are known as Pentoshi. 

The city is the home of Magister Illyrio Mopatis. Daenerys and Viserys Targaryen temporarily reside in Pentos for about one year prior to Daenerys' marriage to Khal Drogo. Contents[show] GeographyEdit 

Pentos is located at roughly the mid-latitude of the Free Cities, between Braavos in the north and Lys in the south. It is due east of King's Landing, directly across the Narrow Sea. It is surrounded by fertile coastal plains known as the Flatlands. EconomyEdit 

Pentos's economy is based mostly on trade and commerce of products such as cheese. As a result, Pentoshi traders like Illyrio Mopatis are often referred to derogatively as "cheese-mongers". They have a brisk trade with the Seven Kingdoms across the Narrow Sea. They use their wealth to pay tribute to the Dothraki to avoid being sacked by the nomadic people. GovernmentEdit 

Illyrio Mopatis, a Pentoshi merchant-lord. 

Pentos is nominally ruled by a Prince chosen by the city's Magisters from among the Pentoshi noble families. The Prince supposedly holds the powers of trade, justice, and war, and on every new year he must deflower the Maid of the Field and the Maid of the Sea to bring good fortune to the city. However, should a crop fail or a war be lost, the Magisters slit the Prince's throat and choose another. In truth, the Prince's power is only nominal, and the true rulers of the city are the council of magisters, wealthy merchant-princes. Notable PentoshiEdit Illyrio Mopatis, a wealthy Magister of Pentos. HistoryEdit Season 1Edit 

The exiled Targaryens look west across the Narrow Sea from Pentos. 

Daenerys and Viserys are guests of Illyrio Mopatis in his manse just outside the city of Pentos. Khal Drogo visits the manse to "view" Daenerys. They hold the wedding ceremony on the beach below the manse. Afterwards the Dothraki depart eastwards for the Dothraki sea, Daenerys and Viserys going with them. A few months later, Illyrio secretly travels from Pentos to King's Landing to consult with Varys. Season 2Edit 

Ser Davos Seaworth tries to convince the pirate-lord Salladhor Saan to take a contract for his fleet of thirty ships to supplement the faction of Stannis Baratheon. Davos successfully wins over Salladhor by saying that he could spend the rest of his career making easy but small raids on the ships of "Pentoshi cheese-mongers" and "Meereenese silk merchants", or he could help Stannis take King's Landing, which while more difficult will make Salladhor fabulously wealthy if they succeed. Season 3 Edit 

While in Astapor, Jorah Mormont and Barristan Selmy debate whether or not Daenerys Targaryen should purchase an army of Unsullied. Selmy is opposed to having slaves for soldiers, and opts instead for hiring sellswords in Pentos and Myr. Season 5 Edit 

Tyrion Lannister and Varys at Illyrio's mansion in Pentos. 

After a rough journey in a crate after escaping the capital, Tyrion Lannister arrives in Pentos with Varys where they take rest for a short period. Varys informs Tyrion that he and the Magister of Pentos were secretly supporting the Targaryen cause. Varys convinces Tyrion to depart Pentos with him and head to Meereen to meet Daenerys Targaryen. In the booksEdit 

Slavery is nominally illegal in Pentos, but the Pentoshi "servant" at Illyrio's mansion shackled with a bronze collar is a slave in all but name. 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Pentos was the northernmost of the large Valyrian colony-cities when the Doom destroyed the empire four centuries ago. Pentos and the other Free Cities became independent over the course of the many-sided war known as the Century of Blood. 

Pentos is a large seaport consisting of squat brick buildings and a number of large palaces and holdings, both within the walls and outside on the plains known as the Flatlands. Pentos's location makes it especially vulnerable to raids from the Dothraki. As such the Pentoshi merchants are prone to feasting and gifting the passing Dothraki warlords with lavish parties and gifts to appease them into not destroying their holdings. 

Slavery is technically illegal in Pentos due to a treaty imposed by Braavos a hundred years before the events in the novels. However, the wealthy Magisters flout this law and keep bronze-collared "servants" that are slaves in all but name. Some Magisters are even involved in the slave trade. 

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Pentos" is pronounced "PEN-tos", as opposed to "Pen-TOES", etc. See alsoEdit Pentos on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, Pentos entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Pentos entry ↑ The Free Cities (Histories &amp; Lore) ↑ "Winter is Coming" ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "The Wars to Come" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Free Cities Cities 

Braavos · Lorath · Lys · Myr · Norvos · Qohor · Pentos · Tyrosh · Volantis (Selhorys · Valysar · Volon Therys) Ruined Rhoynar cities: 

Ny Sar · Sar Mell · Chroyane Border regions 

Disputed Lands · Stepstones Regions and Geography 

Andalos . Braavosian Coastlands · Flatlands · Forest of Qohor · Golden Fields · Hills of Norvos · Orange Shore · The Axe Seas 

Narrow Sea · Sea of Myrth . Shivering Sea · Summer Sea Rivers and Lakes 

Dagger Lake · Rhoyne · Qhoyne Culture 

Iron Bank of Braavos · Currency · Faceless Men · Mercenaries · Pleasure houses · Slavery · Magister · Archon · Cyvasse · R'hllor, the Lord of Light · High Valyrian language · Low Valyrian language Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Pentos?oldid=233069"