The Red Keep Location The Crownlands, King's Landing Type Castle, administrative capital Population Rulers The King of the Andals and the First Men Religion The Faith of the Seven Military Kingsguard 
The City Watch 
House Lannister guard Institutions Small council 
 Places of note Great Hall 
Maegor's Holdfast 
Tower of the Hand 
White Sword Tower 
The Maidenvault 
Traitor's Walk 
Black Cells Date of founding 1 AL Age 300 years (approx.) Founder Aegon I Targaryen, 
 completed by Maegor I Targaryen [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "Aegon built his castle of red rock to remind people of the fire he roasted his enemies in, so whenever King's Landing looked up they'd see the price of defiance." ―Joffrey Baratheon[src] 

The Red Keep is the residence of the King of the Andals and the First Men, his family and his court, located within King's Landing, the capital of the Seven Kingdoms. It dominates the skyline of the city, and serves as the city's primary fortress and redoubt. 

Located in the southeastern corner of King's Landing, the Red Keep overlooks Blackwater Bay and the Narrow Sea. It is currently the seat of King Tommen&nbsp;Baratheon, and was formerly the seat of King Joffrey Baratheon, King Robert Baratheon,&nbsp;and before him the seat of the Targaryen kings. Contents[show] Specific LocationsEdit The Great HallEdit 

The Great Hall is the massive throne room of the Red Keep and where the Iron Throne stands. The King (or his Hand, in the event of the King's absence), holds court and receives petitioners within the Great Hall. It is also employed for official ceremonies. Maegor's HoldfastEdit 

Maegor's Holdfast is a stout tower in the center of the Red Keep. It was named after King Maegor Targaryen, who built the Red Keep. It serves as a redoubt when the city is attacked. The royal apartments are also located in Maegor's Holdfast. 

Maegor's Holdfast served as a refuge for Queen Cersei&nbsp;and the highborn ladies of the Red Keep during the Battle of the Blackwater. The Tower of the HandEdit 

The Tower of the Hand is the location of the quarters and offices of the Hand of the King. The Hand's family, household and guards also live and work in the Tower of the Hand. 

When Tywin Lannister assumes his Hand duties for King Joffrey he arranges for the meetings of the small council to be held in the Tower of the Hand to assert his own authority. The White Sword TowerEdit 

The White Sword Tower houses the chambers of the Kingsguard. The MaidenvaultEdit 

The Maidenvault was built under orders of King Baelor Targaryen to imprison his sisters Daena, Rhaena, and Elaena to prevent them from inciting any carnal thought in the pious king. The GodswoodEdit 

The Red Keep's Godswood overlooks the Blackwater Rush. It has no weirwood as the Red Keep is not an ancient castle from the time the Old Gods of the Forest held sway south of the Neck. The Traitor's WalkEdit 

The Traitor's Walk is an outer corridor on one of the sides of the Red Keep with view to one of its outer walls. The heads of criminals and traitors are placed on spikes over said wall, visible both to the exterior of the Red Keep and whoever passes through the corridor. 

Following the arrest and execution of Ned Stark, his head and those of his entire household were placed on the wall beside the Traitor's Walk. The dungeonsEdit 

The dungeons of the Red Keep are divided in four levels: On the upper level are cells with high narrow windows where common criminals are confined together. The second level has smaller, personal cells without windows for highborn captives and valuable hostages. The Black Cells are the third level. Prisoners accused of treason and other high crimes are kept within the Black Cells, as was the case of Ned Stark. Varys has access to the Black Cells, though he dons the disguise of a gaoler when entering. The fourth level is spoken of only in rumors. Once a man is taken here, he never sees the light of day again and is subjected to the most painful torments. Secret passagesEdit 

The Red Keep, according to rumors, is full of miles of secret passages running behind the walls and below the floors. Maegor the Cruel had the builders of the Red Keep executed after the castle was completed to keep the secret of the passageways. Notable residents of the KeepEdit King Tommen of House Baratheon, the First of His Name, King of the Andals and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms. Queen Regent Cersei Lannister, his mother, widow of Robert I. The King's Small Council: Ser Kevan Lannister, Hand of the King Grand Maester Pycelle Qyburn, the Master of Whisperers Ser Boros Blount, Ser Preston Greenfield, Ser Balon Swann, Ser Arys Oakheart, Ser Gregor Clegane, knights of the Kingsguard. Ser Ilyn Payne, the King's Justice Image GalleryEdit The Red Keep overlooking King's Landing, as seen from the north The south side of the Red Keep, seen from the sea wall close to the mouth of the Blackwater Rush. Frontal aerial view of the Red Keep The Red Keep seen in the distance, from the western side of King's Landing Concept art of the Red Keep's vaults One of the Red Keep's underground vaults, where the skulls of Targaryen dragons were dumped after Robert's Rebellion Behind the scenesEdit 

Production Designer Gemma Jackson said that the look of the floor in the Red Keep is based on the Pantheon in Rome. In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, the Red Keep is a major castle complex located at the south-eastern corner of the city of King's Landing, directly overlooking the Blackwater Rush and Blackwater Bay. It is built atop Aegon's High Hill, the tallest hill of the city, and affords a panoramic view of the rest of the city. It consists of a number of interconnected buildings, such as the main keep, a secondary castle called Maegor's Holdfast and the Tower of the Hand, the seat of the Hand of the King. White Sword Tower is the base of operations for the Kingsguard. The Red Keep is so-named due to the redstone bricks used to build it. 

The Red Keep was built approximately three centuries prior to the events of the series and replaced an earlier wooden fort called "Aegonfort", built by King Aegon I Targaryen where he first set foot on the continent and used as his base of operations in his conquest of Westeros. After Aegon deemed the fort unsuitable for rule, he took the royal court to Dragonstone, and ruled there for many years until his death. The construction of the Keep was an immense undertaking, spanning the reign of the first few Targaryen kings, although modifications and additions to the castle have been made ever since. See alsoEdit Red Keep on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Fire and Blood" ↑ Gemma Jackson in The Daily Beast v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Locations in the Red Keep Great Hall · Maegor's Holdfast · Tower of the Hand · White Sword Tower 
Maidenvault · Godswood · Traitor's Walk · Black Cells v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Crownlands Regional Capital: 

King's Landing (Red Keep · Great Sept of Baelor · Guildhall of the Alchemists · Flea Bottom · Dragonpit 
· Mud Gate · King's Gate · Littlefinger's brothel) Settlements: 

Antlers · Rosby · Castle Stokeworth · Duskendale · The Whispers · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Sharp Point · Stonedance· Rook's Rest · Sow's Horn Geographic Features: 

Blackwater Rush · Blackwater Bay · Crackclaw Point · Claw Isle · Dragonstone · Driftmark · Spears of the Merling King · The Kingswood Roads 

Kingsroad · Goldroad · Roseroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Red_Keep?oldid=214524"