Riverrun Location The Riverlands, Westeros Type Castle Population Rulers House Tully (de facto) 
House Frey (de jure) Religion The Faith of the Seven Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Over 1,000 years Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] 

Map showing the location of Riverrun on the continent of Westeros. 

A map of the Riverlands showing Riverrun "... when I first saw the stone walls of Riverrun rising from the Trident, towering over me, back then, I was a little more easily impressed. The boy in me thought the gods themselves must live in such a place. I soon learned otherwise." ―Petyr Baelish[src] 

Riverrun&nbsp;is the former seat of House Tully, who continue to hold it in defiance of the Iron Throne and its new lawful rulers, House Frey. It is a large castle located in the central-western part of the Riverlands. It sits at the point where the Red Fork of the Trident River is joined by its major tributary, the Tumblestone River flowing out of the west. In times of danger, sluice gates can be opened to flood a channel cut to the west of the castle, turning Riverrun into an island. Its walls rise sheer from the waters and its towers command the opposite shores, making assaulting it almost impossible without huge casualties. Contents[show] Notable residents of the castleEdit Lord {Hoster Tully}, the late Lord of Riverrun and Lord Paramount of the Trident. Lady {Minisa Whent}, his wife, who died many years ago in childbirth. Lady {Catelyn Tully}, his eldest daughter, widow of Lord Eddard Stark. Catelyn was, along with her son Robb Stark and many other North men, slain at The Twins during the wedding ceremony of her brother Edmure to Roslin Frey. Lady {Lysa Tully}, his second daughter, widow of Lord Jon Arryn and Lady Regent of the Vale. Murdered by Lord Petyr Baelish. Lord Edmure Tully, the last Tully Lord of Riverrun and Lord Paramount of the Trident. Now a hostage of House Frey. Ser Brynden Tully, known as "the Blackfish", Lord Hoster's brother. Image GalleryEdit Riverrun as it appears in the show's title sequence. Riverrun's main hall. Riverrun's garden. 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit 

The grounds of Gosford Castle&nbsp;in&nbsp;County Armagh, Northern Ireland&nbsp;were used for&nbsp;Riverrun&nbsp;exteriors during Season 3. 

The design was loosely based on Château de Chenonceau. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Riverrun is a triangular castle made of sandstone. It is located at the confluence of the Tumblestone River and the Red Fork of the The Trident River. 

Riverrun has been in the possession of House Tully for a thousand years. It became the seat of rule over the region when House Tully rebelled against the ironborn occupiers and allied with Aegon the Conqueror three centuries ago. See alsoEdit Riverrun on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Riverrun entry ↑ Miller, Susan (August 3, 2012). Day 26: Gosford Castle as Riverrun WinterIsComing.Net ↑ audio commentary from Gemma Jackson for "Walk of Punishment" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Frey Lord: Lord Walder Frey Heir: Ser Stevron Frey Seat: The Twins · Riverrun Lands: Riverlands Title(s): Lord of the Crossing · Lord of Riverrun · Lord Paramount of the Trident Ancestors: Frey Current members: Arwaya Frey · Derwa Frey · Freya Frey · Janeya Frey · Lothar Frey · Marianne Frey · Merry Frey · Neyela Frey · Olyvar Frey · Roslin Frey · Sarra Frey · Serra Frey · Shirei Frey · Walda Frey · "Fat Walda" Frey · Waldra Frey · Waldron Frey · Ryger Rivers · Black Walder Rivers Deceased members: Joyeuse Erenford Household: Malcolm · Talbot Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Riverlands Regional Capital: 

Riverrun Settlements: 

Seagard · Wendish Town · Fairmarket · Riverrun · The Twins · Harrenhal · Raventree Hall · Stone Hedge · Crossroads Inn · High Heart · Acorn Hall · Maidenpool · Pinkmaiden · Stoney Sept Rivers and Lakes: 

The Trident · Blackwater Rush · Gods Eye Geographic Features: 

The Neck · Ironman's Bay · Cape of Eagles · Whispering Wood · Isle of Faces · Hollow Hill Roads 

Kingsroad · River Road/Eastern Road · Goldroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Riverrun?oldid=225566"