Runestone Location The Vale of Arryn, Westeros Type Castle Population Rulers House Royce Religion The Faith of the Seven Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] 

A map showing the location of Runestone on the continent of Westeros. 

Runestone is a castle in the Vale of Arryn. It is the seat of House Royce, an ancient House once ruled the Vale as the "Bronze Kings" of the Vale before the Andal Invasion. House Royce are now one of the major vassal houses holding fealty to House Arryn of the Eyrie. The castle is located east of the Eyrie, on the coast of the Narrow Sea. It is north of the city port of Gulltown. Contents[show] HistoryEdit 

The current head of House Royce and Lord of Runestone is Yohn Royce, father of Robar and Waymar Royce. The maester appointed to the castle is Helliweg and its master-at-arms is Ser Samwell Stone. Season 5Edit 

Robin Arryn is sent to be fostered at Runestone, where Royce's men begin attempting to train him to use a sword, but he is miserably bad at it. Sweetrobin was over-sheltered by his mother Lysa for years, and has never swung a sword before - unlike most boys who are even younger than the 13-year-old Robin Arryn. Petyr Baelish and Sansa Stark observe Sweetrobin tripping over himself in a practice yard, along with Yohn Royce. As Littlefinger and Sansa depart, Lord Royce promises that he will keep the boy safe, though he cannot promise his swordsmanship will improve. Image galleryEdit Littlefinger, Sansa, and Lord Yohn Royce at Runestone, watching Sweetrobin Arryn begin training with the master-at-arms. Sweetrobin training in the practice yard at Runestone, the mountains behind them. 
Add a photo to this gallery In the novelsEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, House Royce proudly descends from the First Men, one of the very few of their Houses to survive the Andal invasion in the Vale. The head of House Royce wears ceremonial bronze armor covered in the rune symbols of the Old Tongue of the First Men, which are also featured on House Royce's sigil. It seems probable that "Rune-stone" was named after runes left behind by the First Men in the area. See also Edit Runestone on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 5: episode 1 map, Runestone entry ↑ "The Wars to Come" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Vale Regional Capital: 

The Eyrie Settlements: 

Bloody Gate · Redfort · Runestone · Gulltown · Wickendon · Sisterton Regions: 

Mountains of the Moon · The Fingers Coastal Areas: 

The Bite · The Fingers Islands: 

The Paps · Pebble · The Three Sisters Roads 

Eastern Road Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Runestone?oldid=226608"