

A map showing the location of the Searoad on the continent of Westeros. 

The Searoad is a major highway in the Seven Kingdoms. It connects Casterly Rock and Lannisport in the Westerlands to the castle of Highgarden in the Reach. The Searoad passes through Crakehall and Old Oak. The road has to cross the Mander River to reach Highgarden, which is located on the southern bank of the river. At Highgarden the Searoad meets the Roseroad, which heads north and east towards King's Landing, and south to Oldtown. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Searoad is in the same location. Curiously, the first four novels in the series label is the "Searoad", as does the official map for HBO's TV series adaptation. However, the map accompanying the fifth novel, A Dance With Dragons, inexplicably labels it the "Ocean Road". It's not clear if this is an alternate name, or a mistake in publication. See alsoEdit Searoad on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, Casterly Rock entry v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Westerlands Regional Capital: 

Casterly Rock Settlements: 

Lannisport · Banefort · The Crag · Castamere · Ashemark · Golden Tooth · Sarsfield · Hornvale · Faircastle · Feastfires · Clegane's Keep · Deep Den · Silverhill · Cornfield · Crakehall · Oxcross Rivers and Lakes: 

Tumblestone · Yellow Fork Geographic Features: 

Ironman's Bay · Fair Isle Roads 

Goldroad · Searoad · River Road v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Reach Regional Capital: 

Highgarden Settlements: 

Old Oak · Red Lake · Goldengrove · Bitterbridge · Tumbleton · Grassy Vale · Cider Hall · Ashford · Horn Hill · Brightwater Keep · Bandallon · Honeyholt · Oldtown (The Citadel · The Hightower) · Uplands · Blackcrown · Three Towers · Sun House · The Arbor Rivers: 

Honeywine · Mander · Blueburn · Cockleswhent Islands: 

Shield Islands · The Arbor Geographic Features: 

Redwyne Straits Roads 

Roseroad · Searoad · Goldroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Roads of Westeros Major highways Goldroad · Kingsroad · Roseroad · Searoad · River Road/Eastern Road Mountain passes into Dorne Boneway · Prince's Pass Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Searoad?oldid=209112"