

A map showing the location of Shipbreaker Bay off the coast of Westeros. 

Renly and Stannis Baratheon parley along the shore of Shipbreaker Bay. 

Shipbreaker Bay is a body of water located off the south-eastern coast of Westeros. It is an inlet of the Narrow Sea, running along the eastern coast of the Stormlands, separating the mainland from the island of Tarth. The bay is noted for its severe, frequent storms. House Baratheon's ancestral castle, Storm's End, is located on the bay. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 2Edit 

Renly and Stannis Baratheon undertake a fruitless parley on a cliff overlooking Shipbreaker Bay. 

Tyrion Lannister later receives intelligence that Stannis' fleet of 200 ships is headed north past Tarth, putting them in the northern part of the bay. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels Shipbreaker Bay is named for the hundreds, if not thousands, of ships that have been wrecked in storms along its shores. Most notably, the parents of Robert, Stannis and Renly Baratheon were killed in a shipwreck close to Storm's End twenty years before the events of the series. 

As well as Storm's End, the castles of Griffin's Roost, Rain House, and Evenfall Hall are located along the coast of the bay. See alsoEdit Shipbreaker Bay on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, King's Landing entry ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Stormlands Regional Capital: 

Storm's End Settlements: 

Felwood · Haystack Hall · Bronzegate · Evenfall Hall · Summerhall · Griffin's Roost · Rain House · Mistwood · Stonehelm · Blackhaven · Crow's Nest · Nightsong Geographic Features: 

Dornish Marches · Estermont · The Kingswood · Rainwood · Wendwater River · Shipbreaker Bay · Tarth Roads 

Kingsroad · Boneway · Prince's Pass v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Seas of the Known World Major Seas: 

Sunset Sea · Summer Sea · Narrow Sea · Shivering Sea · Jade Sea Lesser and Inland Seas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · The Bite · Blackwater Bay · Gulf of Grief · Ironman's Bay · Sea of Dorne · Sea of Myrth · Smoking Sea · Sea of Sighs · Shipbreaker Bay Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Shipbreaker_Bay?oldid=210886"