

The Smoking Sea and the ruins of Old Valyria. "East of Westeros lies the Smoking Sea, where no ship dares sail. There are those who swear it to be demon-haunted. And who's to say they're wrong?" ―Viserys Targaryen[src] 

A map showing the location of the Smoking Sea off the coast of Essos. 

The Smoking Sea is a body of water located immediately to the south of the Valyrian Peninsula, on the south coast of Essos. It is part of the ocean known as the Summer Sea. The Smoking Sea separates the numerous islands that were formerly part of Valyria from one another and the mainland to the north Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 2Edit 

Quaithe of the Shadow Lands inscribes a sailor with apparently magic tattoos. She says these symbols will protect him as his ship must sail within sight of Valyria. Season 5Edit 

After kidnapping Tyrion Lannister in Volantis, Jorah Mormont steals a fishing boat and heads east to Meereen in Slaver's Bay to present him as a gift to Daenerys Targaryen. Jorah takes the boat through the Smoking Sea as a shortcut, and as he explains to Tyrion, because even pirates are afraid to approach the waters around Valyria, so they won't get any trouble from them on that route. Along the way, they are attacked by Stone Men exiled among the ruins. In the booksEdit 

In the Song of Ice and Fire novels the Smoking Sea is ill-omened. Its waters are said to bubble and let off foul vapors and mists which can kill sailors outright. The Smoking Sea is a recent phenomenon, formed four hundred years ago during the Doom of Valyria when the peninsula was shattered by a massive series of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. 

The Smoking Sea is considered cursed and haunted. Most sailors refuse to sail its waters, instead circumnavigating Valyria by taking a wide detour out to sea. See alsoEdit Smoking Sea on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Valyria entry ↑ "A Man Without Honor" ↑ "Kill the Boy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Valyrian Peninsula Cities 

Mantarys · Tolos · Elyria Ruined Cities 

Old Valyria · Bhorash · Oros · Tyria Geography 

Fourteen Fires Seas 

Gulf of Grief · Sea of Sighs · Smoking Sea · Summer Sea v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Seas of the Known World Major Seas: 

Sunset Sea · Summer Sea · Narrow Sea · Shivering Sea · Jade Sea Lesser and Inland Seas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · The Bite · Blackwater Bay · Gulf of Grief · Ironman's Bay · Sea of Dorne · Sea of Myrth · Smoking Sea · Sea of Sighs · Shipbreaker Bay Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Smoking_Sea?oldid=220462"