

A map showing the location of the Stony Shore on the continent of Westeros. "You'll take a ship to raid the fishing villages of the Stony Shore." ―Balon to Theon Greyjoy[src] 

The Stony Shore is a region in the North. It forms part of the west coast, west of the Rills and southwest of the Wolfswood and Sea Dragon Point. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 2Edit 

As part of his campaign to seize the North during the War of the Five Kings, Balon Greyjoy order his son, Theon, to raid the fishing villages of the Stony Shore. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Stony Shore is the same. It is luridly described how the Ironborn pillaged it: the bodies have been looted and mutilated. Of the fishing village, nothing remained but cold ashes that stank when it rained. The men had been put to the sword, all but a handful that Theon had allowed to flee to bring the word to Torrhen's Square. Their wives and daughters had been claimed for salt wives, those who were young enough and fair. The crones and the ugly ones had simply been raped and killed, or taken for thralls if they had useful skills and did not seem likely to cause trouble. See alsoEdit Stony Shore on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Torrhen's Square entry ↑ "What is Dead May Never Die" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Stony_Shore?oldid=209706"