Sunspear Location Dorne, Westeros Type Castle, regional capital Population Rulers House Martell Religion The Faith of the Seven Military Institutions Places of note Spear Tower 
Tower of the Sun 
The Sandship 
The Threefold Gate 
The Shadow City Date of founding Age At least 1,000 years Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] Tyrion Lannister: "Forgive me, I don't see Prince Doran in your company?" Lord Blackmont: "The Prince's health forces him to remain at Sunspear. He sends his brother, Prince Oberyn, to attend the royal wedding in his stead." — Lord Blackmont explains that Prince Doran remains in Dorne's capital.[src] 

Map showing the location of Sunspear on the continent of Westeros. 

Sunspear is the seat of House Martell and the capital of Dorne, southernmost of the Seven Kingdoms, located in the far southeast of the continent on the Summer Sea. It consists of a strong, fortified castle and a town that sprawls around it. It is a town built largely of mud and straw. The town's largest structure is Spear Tower, a 150-feet structure with a pinnacle of shining steel. Contents[show] In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Sunspear is the principal stronghold of House Martell. It is located on the far-eastern coast of Dorne and consists of two strong towers, the Spear Tower and the Tower of the Sun, the latter of which contains the Prince of Dorne's throne room. The castle walls are sand-colored, setting it apart from the other major castles of Westeros. 

Sunspear is surrounded by the shadow town, which consists of shops, markets and bazaars. The town is also walled, though more buildings - mostly mud-brick hovels - stretch beyond it. The castle and town also have a modest harbor. Areo Hotah, who is from the Free Cities, notes that the town around Sunspear isn't really large enough to be considered a true "city" on the scale of Norvos, Pentos, or King's Landing, but it is still the largest settlement in Dorne. Notable residents of the castleEdit Prince Doran Martell, the ruler of Dorne in the name of the King. Princess Arianne Martell, Prince Doran's firstborn daughter and heir. Prince Trystane Martell, Prince Doran's youngest child. Prince {Oberyn Martell}, called the Red Viper, Prince Doran's younger brother. Ellaria Sand ​, Prince Oberyn's paramour and mother of five Sand Snakes. The Sand Snakes, Prince Oberyn's eight bastard daughters. Areo Hotah, Doran's trusted captain of the guards. Originally from the Free Cities. See alsoEdit Sunspear on A Wiki of Ice and Fire&nbsp;(spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Sunspear entry v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Martell Lord: Prince Doran Martell Heir: Seat: Sunspear Lands: Dorne Title(s): Prince of Dorne · Lord of Sunspear Ancestors: Princess Nymeria · Prince Mors Martell · Prince Maron Martell · Princess Daenerys Martell · Queen Myriah Martell Current members: Prince Trystane Martell · Ellaria Sand · Obara Sand · Nymeria Sand · Tyene Sand · Sarella Sand · Elia Sand · Obella Sand · Dorea Sand · Loreza Sand Deceased members: Prince Lewyn Martell · Princess Elia Martell · Prince Oberyn Martell Household: Areo Hotah Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Dorne Regional Capital: 

Sunspear Settlements: 

Planky Town · Vulture's Roost · Wyl · Blackmont · Kingsgrave · Starfall · Skyreach · Yronwood · Sandstone · Hellholt · Vaith · The Tor · Godsgrace · Saltshore · Lemonwood · Water Gardens · Ghost Hill Rivers: 

Greenblood (Scourge · Vaith) · Torentine · Brimstone Mountains: 

Red Mountains Roads: 

Boneway · Prince's Pass Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Sunspear?oldid=208722"