The Dreadfort Location The North, Westeros Type Castle, temporary regional capital Population Rulers House Bolton Religion The Old Gods of the Forest Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "Let me send word to my bastard at the Dreadfort." ―Roose Bolton to Robb Stark[src] 

The Dreadfort on the Boltons' map in "Kill the Boy". 

Map showing the location of the Dreadfort on the continent of Westeros. 

The Dreadfort is a castle situated in the North. It is the seat of House Bolton, located on the banks of the Weeping Water east of Winterfell. The Dreadfort is ill-omened as the stronghold of House Bolton, who are famed for the flayed skins of their enemies, often rumored to have been kept on display in the castle, including those of several ancient Stark kings. However, if such gruesome trophies ever did exist they have long since been removed or destroyed. Contents[show] HistoryEdit BackgroundEdit 

The Dreadfort under siege. 

House Bolton of the Dreadfort had a long history of dissent and rebellion, to the point were they became known as the "Bane of the North". Season 2Edit 

Word of Winterfell's capture by Theon Greyjoy reaches the Dreadfort's garrison. This news is then relayed to Roose Bolton via messenger ravens. Season 3Edit 

Ramsay Snow assists Theon in "escaping" from the Dreadfort. 

After being betrayed by his crew and delivered to Ramsay Snow, Theon Greyjoy is imprisoned in a torture chamber at the Dreadfort. Over the course of several months, he is subjected to a number of horrific tortures, both physical and psychological. Season 4Edit 

Yara Greyjoy&nbsp;leads an assault on the Dreadfort to rescue&nbsp;Theon Greyjoy. The assault ends in failure when Yara and her fellow ironborn cannot convince Theon, now "Reek", that they are his rescue party. Ramsay, the Bastard's Girls, and his fellow Dreadfort men-at-arms repel the ironborn&nbsp;raiders. 

Following the Fall of Moat Cailin, the Boltons take Winterfell - the traditional capital of the North - for their new seat, leaving The Dreadfort in the hands of a handful of Bolton men and a Castellan. Notable residentsEdit Lord Roose Bolton, Lord of the Dreadfort and Warden of the North. Lady Walda Bolton, Roose's latest wife. Granddaughter of Lord Walder Frey Ramsay Bolton, his legitimized natural son, acting Lord of the Dreadfort Reek, formerly Theon Greyjoy, manservant and hostage of Ramsay. {Myranda}, {Violet}, and {Tansy}, Ramsay's bedwarmers. {Locke}, Lord Bolton's master-at-arms, perished beyond the Wall in pursuit of Bran Stark. Steelshanks, a man-at-arms sworn to Lord Bolton. The {Master Torturer}, chief interrogator. Killed by Ramsay Snow. Image GalleryEdit The Dreatfort's kennels. One of the Dreadfort's guard towers. The Dreadfort as it appears in the opening titles. Ramsay's bedchamber. 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit 

Myra Castle in County Down, Northern Ireland serves as the exterior of the Dreadfort in the fourth season. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Dreadfort has a similar history of dissent and rebellion. Three centuries after the founding of Karhold, the Starks finally crushed the Boltons in a war that saw the Dreadfort besieged for two years. The Dreadfort is built around volcanic vents, which heat the castle in a similar manner to the natural hot springs under Winterfell. 

The Dreadfort is a strong fortress, with high walls and triangular merlons that look like sharp stone teeth. It has thick stone walls and massive towers. Its great hall is dim and smoky, with rows of torches grasped by skeletal human hands jutting from the walls. Long tables stand before a dais with a high table. The hall has a vaulted ceiling and wooden rafters turned black from smoke. 

 
 See alsoEdit Dreadfort on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 1 map, Dreadfort entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Dreadfort entry ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" ↑ Game of Thrones Season 4: Artisan Piece #3 - Shooting in Belfast (HBO) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Bolton Lord: Lord Roose Bolton Heir: Ramsay Bolton Seat: Winterfell 
The Dreadfort Lands: The North Title(s): Red King (former) · Lord of the Dreadfort · Warden of the North · Lord Paramount of the North · Lord of Winterfell Ancestors: Rogar Bolton Current members: Walda Bolton · Sansa Stark Deceased members: Domeric Bolton Household: {Locke} · Steelshanks · {Myranda} · {Tansy} · {Violet} · {Master Torturer} · Maester Wolkan Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/The_Dreadfort?oldid=232676"