The Westerlands Location Westeros Formerly The Kingdom of the Rock Type Administrative region of the Seven Kingdoms Geography Low mountains and hills, temperate. Population Westermen Rulers House Lannister Religion The Faith of the Seven Culture Andal Military Regional capital Casterly Rock Cities Lannisport Towns Villages Oxcross Castles Banefort • Castamere • Clegane's Keep • Cornfield • Crakehall • The Crag • Deep Den • Golden Tooth • Faircastle • Feastfires • Hornvale • Silverhill • Sarsfield Places of note Ironman's Bay • Fair Isle • The Goldroad • Yellow Fork Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "Fools look at the Westerlands and see gold. Fools see our wealth and call it strength. Gold is just another rock. The Westerlands are strong because of House Lannister. From strong leadership comes unity; from unity comes power." ―Tywin Lannister[src] 

A map used on-screen of the Westerlands. 

Map showing the location of the Westerlands within the continent of Westeros. 

The Westerlands is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms. It was formerly a sovereign realm known as the Kingdom of the Rock before the Targaryen conquest. 

The Westerlands are ruled from the castle of Casterly Rock by House Lannister. It is one of the smaller regions of the Seven Kingdoms, but is immensely rich in natural resources, particularly metals. Predominantly mountainous, the hills of the Westerlands are riddled with veins of gold and silver, the mining of which has made the Lannisters and their bannermen immensely rich. While the Lannister armies are not as huge as those of the Reach, they are the best-equipped in the realm, with heavily-armored soldiers and cavalry. 

Bastards born in the Westerlands are given the surname Hill. People of the Westerlands are collectively known as Westernmen, and are referred to, derogatorily, as "lions", in reference to the sigil of House Lannister. Colloquially, Westermen are also referred to as Lannisters. Contents[show] GeographyEdit 

The Westerlands border the Riverlands to the east, and the Reach to the south. The Goldroad links Lannisport on Westeros' west coast with the capital city of King's Landing on the east coast, passing through the Reach, skirting south of the Riverlands. The Searoad, hugging the coast, links Lannisport with the capital of the Reach at Highgarden as well as the major city of Oldtown further south. Predominantly mountainous, the Westerlands are well-defended from external attack. There is only one major pass through the mountains in the east of the Westerlands, near the headwaters of the Red Fork of the Trident River. Thus there is only one narrow and predictable path that armies moving between the Westerlands and Riverlands can normally take, and it is guarded by the castle of Golden Tooth. 

The Westerlands border on the waters of Ironman's Bay to the north, and thus are under threat of ironborn attacks along the coasts. House Lannister commonly keeps a large fleet of warships to defends against these attacks (thus the Greyjoy Rebellion began with a sneak attack which burned the Lannister fleet at anchor). Apart from its mountainous terrain, the Westerlands are also somewhat better defended from ironborn attacks because they possesses few major rivers which empty into the west coast; this is in contrast with the Reach, which while further south from the Iron Islands, possesses major rivers such as the Mander which are navigable for a long distance inland. 

The headwaters of the Red Fork of the Trident River originate in the Westerlands' eastern border but do not run through much of it before passing into the Riverlands to the east. The only major river in the Westerlands is in the north, where the Tumblestone river flows east. Ultimately the Tumblestone passes into the Riverlands, where it joins the Red Fork coming up from the south at Riverrun. SettlementsEdit Casterly Rock, the seat of House Lannister, the ruling house of the Westerlands. Ashemark, the seat of House Marbrand. The Crag, the seat of House Westerling. The Golden Tooth, the seat of House Lefford, which guards the main pass from the Westerlands into the Riverlands. Lannisport, the principal city and port of the Westerlands, located in the shadow of Casterly Rock. Seat of a cadet branch of House Lannister Clegane's Keep, the seat of House Clegane. Crakehall, the seat of House Crakehall. Cornfield, the seat of House Swyft. Banefort, a holdfast on northern shore of the Westerlands, where Ironman's Bay meets the Sunset Sea. Deep Den, a holdfast just off the Goldroad Silverhill, the seat of House Serrett, a holdfast in the south of the region. Hornvale, a holdfast in the center of the region. Sarsfield, the seat of House Sarsfield, a holdfast nord-east of Casterly Rock, along the River Road. Feastfires, a holdfast on the peninsula west of Casterly Rock. Faircastle, a holdfast on Fair Isle. Oxcross , a small settlement east of Lannisport. Castamere, the ruined seat of House Reyne, razed after their rebellion RoadsEdit The Searoad The Goldroad Coastal areasEdit Ironman's Bay IslandsEdit Fair Isle Lakes and riversEdit Tumblestone Yellow Fork In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels the Westerlands consist of a landscape of hills and valleys stretching from the well-watered Riverlands in the east to the sea in the north and west, and to the fertile plains of the Reach to the south. See alsoEdit The Westerlands on A Wiki of Ice and Fire HBO Viewer's Guide. v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Westerlands Regional Capital: 

Casterly Rock Settlements: 

Lannisport · Banefort · The Crag · Castamere · Ashemark · Golden Tooth · Sarsfield · Hornvale · Faircastle · Feastfires · Clegane's Keep · Deep Den · Silverhill · Cornfield · Crakehall · Oxcross Rivers and Lakes: 

Tumblestone · Yellow Fork Geographic Features: 

Ironman's Bay · Fair Isle Roads 

Goldroad · Searoad · River Road v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Houses from the Westerlands Great House: 

Lannister Noble Houses: 

Crakehall · Lannister of Lannisport · Lefford · Marbrand · Payne · Sarsfield · Serrett · Westerling · Yarwyck Knightly Houses: 

Clegane · Hetherspoon · Lorch · Greenfield · Swyft Extinct Houses: 

Casterly · Reyne v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/The_Westerlands?oldid=225917"