

A map showing the location of the Bite off the coast of Westeros. 

The Bite is a large bay located off the north-eastern coast of Westeros. It is an inlet of the Shivering Sea. It separates the southern coast of the North from the northern coast of the Vale of Arryn, with the Neck running along the western edge of the bay. The islands known as the Three Sisters are located within the Bite. 

Several northern settlements are on the coastland of the Bite. The castle Widow's Watch is on a peninsula that projects into the northern mouth of the bay. The city of White Harbor lies at the estuary of the White Knife river on the northern edge of the Bite. The town Ramsgate lies at the estuary of the Broken Branch river. 

The Fingers peninsulas project into the southern mouth of the bay. Beyond the bay lies the Shivering Sea, which extends to the north of Essos, beyond the limits of the known world. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels the Bite is in the same location. In the distant past ships from the North and the Vale clashed on the Bite. ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Moat Cailin entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, The Vale of Arryn entry See alsoEdit The Bite on A Wiki of Ice and Fire v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Vale Regional Capital: 

The Eyrie Settlements: 

Bloody Gate · Redfort · Runestone · Gulltown · Wickendon · Sisterton Regions: 

Mountains of the Moon · The Fingers Coastal Areas: 

The Bite · The Fingers Islands: 

The Paps · Pebble · The Three Sisters Roads 

Eastern Road v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Seas of the Known World Major Seas: 

Sunset Sea · Summer Sea · Narrow Sea · Shivering Sea · Jade Sea Lesser and Inland Seas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · The Bite · Blackwater Bay · Gulf of Grief · Ironman's Bay · Sea of Dorne · Sea of Myrth · Smoking Sea · Sea of Sighs · Shipbreaker Bay Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/The_Bite?oldid=210217"