

The Hand's study. "You've been holding the council meetings in the Tower of the Hand." ―King Joffrey Baratheon to Lord Tywin Lannister[src] 

The Tower of the Hand is a location within the Red Keep in King's Landing. It serves as the residence of the Hand of the King and his household. Among other rooms, it contains a dining room, the Hand's study, the Hand's bed chamber and connecting corridors and stairways. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 1 Edit 

During his short tenure as Hand of the King, Eddard Stark takes residence in the tower alongside his daughters Sansa and Arya. Season 2 Edit 

Tyrion Lannister takes up residence in the tower when he assumes the role of Hand of the King. Secretly, he also installs his lover Shae with him, until she's discovered by Varys. 

Tyrion also has dinner with Janos Slynt in the Tower before exiling him to the Night's Watch. Cersei visits Tyrion in his bed chamber to confront him about his treatment of Slynt. Season 3 Edit 

After assuming the mantle of Hand of the King, Tywin Lannister takes residence in the Tower. He also has small council meetings take place in the Tower instead of the small council chamber. Season 4 Edit 

Before fleeing the city, Tyrion Lannister sneaks into the Tower, where he strangles his former lover Shae, and then kills his father Tywin with a crossbow while he is on the privy. Behind the scenesEdit 

In the audio commentary track for The North Remembers, D.B. Weiss revealed that falcons representing House Arryn on the wall still remain since neither Ned Stark&nbsp;nor Tyrion Lannister have had time to redecorate after Jon Arryn's death. In the booksEdit 

Following the death of Tywin Lannister, Cersei orders the Tower of the Hand burned to the ground. See alsoEdit Tower of the Hand on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "Valar Dohaeris" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair (episode)" ↑ "The Children" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Locations in the Red Keep Great Hall · Maegor's Holdfast · Tower of the Hand · White Sword Tower 
Maidenvault · Godswood · Traitor's Walk · Black Cells Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Tower_of_the_Hand?oldid=222788"