

The Valyrian Peninsula as it was before the Doom occurred 400 years ago. 

The present-day Valyrian Peninsula, after the Doom of Valyria. 

The Valyrian Peninsula is a large, wide headland extending south from Essos into the Summer Sea, the heartland of the now extinct Valyrian Freehold and the location of its capital city, Valyria. Partially destroyed in the Doom, with many islands formed and low-lying areas flooded, becoming the Smoking Sea. Contents[show] GeographyEdit 

The Valyrian Peninsula was shattered in the Doom. Vast amounts of land fell into the sea, with the surviving remnants becoming islands separated by water. Volcanic activity continues even four centuries after the original eruptions, with the water often turning poisonous and giving off fumes which can kill. 

The city of Valyria itself remains on the central island. Though ruined, it is still somewhat intact and a tempting target for looters and treasure-seekers. However, raiding the ruins is extremely hazardous and most who travel to Valyria never return. Surrounding seasEdit The Smoking Sea separates the islands of Valyria from the peninsula to the north. The Summer Sea lies off the southern edge of the region. The Gulf of Grief separates the ruins of Valyria from Ghiscar to the east. Slaver's Bay lies to the north-east of the area, north of the Gulf of Grief The Sea of Sighs is an inland sea in the northern part of the Valyrian Peninsula. In the booksEdit See alsoEdit Valyrian Peninsula on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Valyria entry ↑ Complete Guide to Westeros v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Valyrian Peninsula Cities 

Mantarys · Tolos · Elyria Ruined Cities 

Old Valyria · Bhorash · Oros · Tyria Geography 

Fourteen Fires Seas 

Gulf of Grief · Sea of Sighs · Smoking Sea · Summer Sea v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Slaver's Bay Cities 

Astapor · Yunkai · Meereen · Tolos · Elyria · New Ghis Geography 

Ghiscar · Ghiscari Strait · Black Cliffs · Yaros Seas and rivers 

Gulf of Grief · Summer Sea · Skahazadhan River History: 

Ghiscari Empire · Old Ghis · Ghiscari Wars · Liberation of Slaver's Bay Leadership: 

Good Masters (Astapor) · Wise Masters (Yunkai) · Great Masters (Meereen) Culture: 

Slavery · Unsullied · Tokar · Fighting pits · Harpies · Ghiscari language · Sons of the Harpy · 
Ghiscari religion (Temple of the Graces · Graces) Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Valyrian_Peninsula?oldid=210047"