

Current Lord Commander Jaime Lannister in the White Sword Tower. 

The White Sword Tower is a location within the Red Keep in King's Landing. It houses the chambers of the members of the Kingsguard as well as the meeting space for the sworn brotherhood. Contents[show] HistoryEdit Season 4Edit 

Jaime Lannister and Meryn Trant plan security for the royal wedding in the White Sword Tower. King Joffrey Baratheon reads about the great deeds of Arthur Dayne and Duncan the Tall in The Book of Brothers. He finds Jaime's entry to be very short and sarcastically says Jaime's great deeds are not in the book. 

While in the Tower, Brienne of Tarth reads Jaime's entry in the Book of Brothers. Shortly after, Jaime gives Brienne his Valyrian steel sword, a new set of armor, and the mission to locate Sansa Stark. 

Cersei Lannister confesses her incest with her brother Jaime to her father Tywin. She then finds Jaime reading The Book of Brothers in the Tower, seduces him, and they have sex in the tower. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the White Sword Tower is a slender, four story structure built into an angle of the Red Keep's wall overlooking the bay. A circular white room, known as the Round Room, has whitewashed stone walls hung with white woolen tapestries, and forms the first floor. A large white table - weirwood carved in the shape of a shield - with seven chairs provides a meeting space for the order. The undercroft holds arms and armor, the second and third floors the small spare sleeping cells of the six brothers of the Kingsguard, and the topmost floor is given over to the Lord Commander's apartments. His rooms are spare as well, but spacious, and they stand above the outer walls. The Tower also houses The Book of Brothers, also known as The White Book, in which the deeds of each member of the Kingsguard is recorded. See alsoEdit White Sword Tower on A Wiki of Ice and Fire v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Locations in the Red Keep Great Hall · Maegor's Holdfast · Tower of the Hand · White Sword Tower 
Maidenvault · Godswood · Traitor's Walk · Black Cells ReferencesEdit ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Oathkeeper" ↑ "The Children" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/White_Sword_Tower?oldid=153234"