"Thus the Starks took it upon themselves to unify the North... under them. They drove the pirates out of White Knife and claimed the eastern coast." ―Roose Bolton[src] 

A map showing the location of the White Knife on the continent of Westeros. 

The White Knife on the Boltons' map in "Kill the Boy" (the big river flowing out of Long Lake). 

The White Knife is a river in the North. It consists of two rivers, one originating in Long Lake and the other in hills to the east, which come together north-east of Winterfell. The river runs south into the Bite, with the city of White Harbor located at its mouth. 

The White Knife was infested with pirates, until the Stark Kings of Winter drove them away. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels the White Knife has two branches, one originating in the Lonely Hills and the other in Long Lake. The White Knife is the primary waterway of the North and one of its most important methods of transportation. 

A separate tributary originates in the west, near the edge of the Wolfswood and Winterfell, but it is not part of the White Knife itself. See alsoEdit White Knife on A Wiki of Ice and Fire&nbsp;(spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Moat Cailin entry ↑ House Bolton (Histories &amp; Lore) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The North Regional Capital(s): 

The Dreadfort, Winterfell Settlements: 

Bear Island · Queenscrown · Last Hearth · Karhold · Winterfell (Winter town) · Deepwood Motte · Torrhen's Square · Castle Cerwyn · Hornwood · Ramsgate · Widow's Watch · Barrowton · White Harbor · Oldcastle · Moat Cailin · Flint's Finger · Greywater Watch · Rillwater Crossing · Ironrath · Highpoint Regions: 

The Grey Cliffs · Sea Dragon Point · The Wolfswood · Stony Shore · The Rills · The Barrowlands · Cape Kraken · Lonely Hills · The Neck Coastal Areas: 

Bay of Ice · Bay of Seals · Blazewater Bay · Saltspear · Ironman's Bay · The Bite Islands: 

Bear Island · Skagos · Skane Rivers and Lakes: 

Last River · Long Lake · Weeping Water · Broken Branch · White Knife Roads 

Kingsroad Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/White_Knife?oldid=210866"