Yunkai Location Slaver's Bay, Essos Type Mercantile city-state Population Ghiscari Rulers Wise Masters Religion Mixed 
Ghiscari religion Military Institutions Places of note Date of founding Age Founder [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]] "Ancient and glorious is Yunkai. Our empire was old before dragons stirred in Old Valyria." ―Razdal mo Eraz[src] 

A map showing the location of Yunkai on the continent of Essos. 

Yunkai, known also as the Yellow City, is one of the three great Ghiscari city-states of Slaver's Bay, located southwest of Meereen and north of Astapor. Bedslaves, trained in the "Way of the Seven Sighs", are Yunkai's chief export. 

Yunkai is ruled by an oligarchy of slave merchants calling themselves the Wise Masters. Its people are known both as Yunkish and Yunkai'i. Contents[show] Notable Yunkai'iEdit Razdal mo Eraz, of the House of Eraz, a slave-trader and one of the Wise Masters. HistoryEdit Season 3Edit 

When Daenerys Targaryen arrives and camps near the Yellow City with the army of Unsullied she acquired in Astapor, the Wise Masters send one of their own, Razdal mo Eraz, to offer her gold and ships so that she goes to Westeros and leaves them alone in their business. Daenerys spurns the offer, but she keeps their gold. Yunkai also employs a mercenary company called the Second Sons to stand against Daenerys and her Unsullied, but one of their leaders, Daario Naharis, betrays their contract, kills his colleagues and pledges his company to Daenerys. With Daario's insider knowledge, a small party of supporters, composed of the Queen's close adviser Jorah Mormont,&nbsp;the Unsullied commander Grey Worm and himself, enter&nbsp;Yunkai through a back-gate and open the front-gates for her army. With the numerical advantage on their side, Yunkai falls within hours. The city then surrenders her slaves to Daenerys, who praise her as their 'Mother'. Season 4Edit 

On a council meeting atop the Great Pyramid in Meereen, Jorah Mormont&nbsp;reports to Daenerys that the Wise Masters have re-enslaved every free man in Yunkai.&nbsp;This convinces Daenerys&nbsp;not to march on King's Landing and&nbsp;remain in&nbsp;Meereen&nbsp;to rule over Slaver's Bay and enforce her abolition of slavery.&nbsp;In order to accomplish this, she&nbsp;sends&nbsp;Hizdahr zo Loraq, a Great Master at her service, and the Second Sons&nbsp;to&nbsp;Yunkai&nbsp;in order to negotiate with the Wise Masters: if they do not comply with her demands of abandoning slavery once and for all,&nbsp;the mercenaries will execute them all. Season 5Edit 

Hizdahr zo Loraq and Daario Naharis return successful from their diplomatic mission: the Wise Masters will comply with Daenerys Targaryen's abolition of slavery and set up a ruling council of former slaveholders and freedman as long as she allows the fighting pits to be reopened (with free and willing combatants, of course). Daenerys refuses to tolerate this condition, despite Hizdahr and Daario's repeated appeals on the matter. Image galleryEdit Yunkai in the title sequence Yunkai In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Yunkai is located at least 163 miles from Meereen. The island of Yaros lies just off the Yunkish coast. It is sometimes called the Yellow City, for its buildings are made from yellow bricks. The city contains large, stepped pyramids - though not as large as Meereen's - and can field an army of 5,000 at short notice, though these are mostly slave-warriors of uncertain reliability. The Meereenese do not have a high opinion of the quality of Yunkai's soldiers or generals. Yunkai is ruled by an aristocracy of slavers and merchants known as the Wise Masters. 

The Yunkai had no choice but to surrender to Daenerys and accept her terms, but they have never complied with the abolition of slavery, and never given up their rule in favor of freedmen. Soon after Daenerys's host leaves to&nbsp;Meereen, they start to plot against her. After the&nbsp;Siege of Meereen&nbsp;ends, a messenger from&nbsp;Astapor&nbsp;informs Daenerys that new levies have been raised and can be seen drilling outside the city walls, warships are being built, envoys have been sent to&nbsp;New Ghis&nbsp;and&nbsp;Volantis&nbsp;to make alliances and hire sellswords. The Yunkai have even dispatched riders to&nbsp;Vaes Dothrak&nbsp;to bring a&nbsp;khalasar&nbsp;down upon Daenerys. Daenerys is greatly&nbsp;disheartened by these news,&nbsp;but unlike in the show she takes no action against Yunkai. 

In "A Dance with Dragons" Daenerys receives more alamring news about Astapor and Yunkai. Ser Barristan advises her to send her troops against her enemies, but she knows that as long as her ruling is insecure - her domestic foes will seize the opportunity to overthrow her. Hizdahr informs her that he reached an agreement with the Wise Masters: Yunkai will give Daenerys peace, but since they suffered losses as a result of the disruption of slave trade, they demand a compensation to be paid in gold and gemstones; Yunkai will resume slaving, and Daenerys must not interfere; Hizdahr will marry her and become the king of Meereen. Daenerys does not like those terms at all, especially the second, but sees no other choice. 

Following the wedding, Daenerys is enraged to see that the Yunkai opened a slave market within sight of Meereen - undoubtfully a deliberate provocation. Hizdahr assures her it is only for short while. To celebrate the peace, the Yunkai and the leaders of their sellsword companies are invited to festivity in&nbsp;the Great Pyramid&nbsp;hall, but to ensure their safety, Daenerys gives the Yunkai seven hostages: three relatives of Hizdahr, Daario, her bloodrider Jhogo, captain Groleo and Hero the Unsullied. 

Following Daenerys's departure, Hizdahr takes over Meereen. Ser Barristan watches Hizdahr, and becomes convinced that he tried to poison Daenerys, and that he collaborates with the Yunkai, since they have a common motive: to dispose of Daenerys and restore the slave trade in Meereen. Ser Barristan throws Hizdahr to jail, and then he, Grey Worm and other Daenerys's loyalists form a ruling council to oversee the Meereeneese affairs&nbsp;until Daenerys returns. Their most urging missions are to find Daenerys, release the hostages and deal with the Yunkai and their sellswords. See alsoEdit Yunkai on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, Yunkai entry ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" ↑ "Second Sons" ↑ "The Rains of Castamere" ↑ "Mhysa" ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ "Mockingbird" ↑ "The Wars to Come" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Known World Westeros: 

Dorne · The Iron Islands · The North · The Reach · The Stormlands · The Vale of Arryn · The Westerlands · The Riverlands · The Crownlands (King's Landing) · The Wall &amp; the Gift · Beyond the Wall Essos: 

Free Cities (Disputed Lands · Stepstones) · Valyrian Peninsula · Slaver's Bay · Dothraki Sea · Lhazar · Red Waste · Qarth · Ibben · Yi Ti · Asshai &amp; the Shadow Lands Sothoryos: 

Basilisk Isles · Naath · Summer Islands v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Slaver's Bay Cities 

Astapor · Yunkai · Meereen · Tolos · Elyria · New Ghis Geography 

Ghiscar · Ghiscari Strait · Black Cliffs · Yaros Seas and rivers 

Gulf of Grief · Summer Sea · Skahazadhan River History: 

Ghiscari Empire · Old Ghis · Ghiscari Wars · Liberation of Slaver's Bay Leadership: 

Good Masters (Astapor) · Wise Masters (Yunkai) · Great Masters (Meereen) Culture: 

Slavery · Unsullied · Tokar · Fighting pits · Harpies · Ghiscari language · Sons of the Harpy · 
Ghiscari religion (Temple of the Graces · Graces) Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Yunkai?oldid=220718"