The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Addam Marbrand Season(s) 1 Appeared in "Fire and Blood" Mentioned in "The Pointy End" Titles Ser Status Alive Allegiance House Lannister 
House Marbrand Family Damon Marbrand (father) Portrayed by B.J. Hogg "No truces. We can't afford to look weak. We should march on them at once." ―Addam Marbrand[src] 

Addam Marbrand is a minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star B.J. Hogg and only appears in "Fire and Blood." Ser Addam Marbrand is the heir of Lord Damon of House Marbrand and a bannerman of House Lannister. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

A messenger reports news from Ser Addam's outriders to Tywin Lannister. Ser Addam's scouts have noticed Robb Stark's forces have crossed the Neck and are moving south along the east bank of the Green Fork of the Trident. Tywin's forces later engage and defeat the Stark force in the Battle of the Green Fork. The Stark army is much smaller than the scouts reported because they separated at the Twins. 

Ser Addam is present for a strategy meeting with Tywin following the defeat in the Battle of the Whispering Wood by the main portion of the Stark army. Also present are Tyrion Lannister, Kevan Lannister, Leo Lefford, Harys Swyft and another bannerman, as well as Tywin's servant and several Lannister officers. He asks about Stannis and Renly Baratheon, and Kevan confirms that both Baratheon brothers have declared against the Lannisters. Later he dismisses suing for a truce so as to not appear weak, and proposes that they march against the Starks instead. Tywin dismisses his bannermen and then announces plans to relocate to Harrenhal. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Addam Marbrand is the most aggressive of the Lannister bannermen at the meeting and decries the idea of a truce. However, Marbrand is the same age as Ser Jaime Lannister and has long red hair and wears a smoke grey cape. 

During his youth, Addam was a page at Casterly Rock and a childhood friend of Jaime Lannister. 

Ser Addam is one of Tywin's bannermen present at Harrenhal and departs the ruined castle a day before his liege lord. He survives the Battle of the Fords and joins Tywin in the march south when the latter receives word of Stannis Baratheon's imminent attack. After the Battle of the Blackwater, Addam is made Commander of the City Watch. 

After Jaime returns to King's Landing, he practices with Addam for a while, but fearing that Addam may get drunk and reveal what poor fighter Jaime is now, he moves to practice with Ilyn Payne. See alsoEdit Addam Marbrand on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "Fire and Blood" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Marbrand Lord: Lord Damon Marbrand Heir: Ser Addam Marbrand Seat: Ashemark Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord of Ashemark Overlord: House Lannister Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Addam_Marbrand?oldid=227889"