The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Adrack Humble Season(s) 4 Appeared in "The Mountain and the Viper" Status Deceased Death Flayed by Ramsay Snow Allegiance House Greyjoy 
House Humble Culture Ironborn Religion Drowned God Portrayed by Jody Halse "If we yield we live? Is that what it says on this paper here?" ―Adrack Humble[src] 

Adrack Humble is a minor character in the fourth season. He is an ironborn raider and a member of House Humble. He is played by guest star&nbsp;Jody Halse and only appears in "The Mountain and the Viper". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Adrack Humble was part of the ironborn raiding party sent by King Balon Greyjoy to seize Moat Cailin during the War of the Five Kings. He is illiterate. Season 4Edit 

Humble's flayed corpse on public display. 

When Ralf Kenning refuses the terms of surrender that Theon Greyjoy has offered on behalf of Roose Bolton, Humble kills him with an axe to the head, preferring to surrender and live than to die. Being unable to read, he asks Theon to clarify that if they surrender they will be allowed to leave. Theon confirms this, and the ironborn open the gates to House Bolton. However, Ramsay Snow and his men flay them alive anyway.&nbsp;Ramsay is then legitimized as a true member of House Bolton for taking Moat Cailin. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Adrack Humble is an ironborn raider and a member of House Humble, a lesser house descended from thralls and salt wives. He lost one of his arms in battle, but is still a fierce fighter. He has one rock wife and three salt wives, three of whom were pregnant when he left the Iron Islands. 

Adrack is among the ironborn that Victarion Greyjoy leaves to guard Moat Cailin under the command of Ralf Kenning. The garrison lives under constant attack from the crannogmen, who attack them with poisoned darts, resulting in the death of several men and the sickness of many others. 

Ramsay Bolton sends Theon Greyjoy to give peace terms to the Ironborn at Moat Cailin, promising them food and safe passage. The surviving ironborn are unsure whether to accept the terms or not. Dagon Codd firmly objects, reminding the others that Theon is the one called "The Turncloak" and they should not believe him. Then Adrack Humble kills Dagon by throwing an axe at his forehead. He tells the others threateningly that they must leave. The other ironborn comply. On the way to Ramsay's camp, Adrack tells Theon about his wives, promising that when he returns to the Iron Islands, he may name a son after Theon in grattitude. Theon is unimpressed, knowing what Ramsay plans for the ironborn. The next day, Theon notices that, among the sixty-three flayed bodies of the ironborn displayed on pikes along the moat, one of the bodies is one-armed. See alsoEdit Adrack Humble on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Adrack_Humble?oldid=229926"