Aggo Season(s) 2 Appeared in "The North Remembers" Titles Bloodrider Status Uncertain Origin The Dothraki sea Allegiance House Targaryen Religion Great Stallion Portrayed by Niccolai McKinsky "Rakharo, Aggo, Kovarro. Take our remaining horses. You will ride east, you southeast, you northeast." ―Daenerys Targaryen, addressing her three bloodriders in turn[src] 

Aggo is a minor character in the second season. He is played by an unidentified extra and only appears in "The North Remembers." Aggo is a Dothraki warrior sworn to Khaleesi Daenerys Targaryen. He is one of her bloodriders. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Aggo was a member of Khal Drogo's khalasar and a member of Daenerys' khas. When Drogo's khalasar fractures, he remains loyal to Daenerys. He pledges his fealty to her after the birth of the dragons. She names him as one of her bloodriders alongside Rakharo and Kovarro. Season 2Edit 

Daenerys leads what remains of her khalasar deep into the Red Waste. Facing starvation she sends Rakharo, Aggo, and Kovarro to scout in three different directions, using the last remaining horses. Aggo is sent southeast. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Aggo is one of the three bodyguards of Daenerys Targaryen and is named both ko and bloodrider after she hatches her dragon eggs. He's an adept archer who saves Daenerys' life from Cohollo, one of Drogo's bloodriders. 

Following Khal Drogo's death, Aggo and the other two bloodriders Jhogo and Rakharo are among the few who remain with Daenerys. Before entering the funeral pyre, Daenerys gives Aggo the dragonbone bow that was her bride gift and names him her ko. Aggo accepts the bow with lowered eyes, saying "I cannot say these words. Only a man can lead a khalasar or name a ko." However, once Daenerys comes out of the pyre alive and with the born dragons, Aggo is the second of the bloodriders to declare "Blood of my blood", and since then he is totally loyal to Daenerys. 

After Daenerys rides Drogon away from Meereen, Aggo and Rakharo go to look for her at the Dothraki sea, instead of Jorah and Daario who are held captive by the Yunkai at that point of the story. See alsoEdit Aggo on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ 1.0 1.1 "The North Remembers" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Targaryen Lord: Queen Daenerys Targaryen Heir: None Seat: (Exiled) Lands: Exiled, currently holds Meereen in Slaver's Bay Title(s): Queen of Meereen · Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea · Queen of Qarth· Queen of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men (claimant) · Lady Regnant of the Seven Kingdoms (claimant) · Protector of the Realm (claimant) Ancestors: Aegon I, the Conqueror · Visenya · Rhaenys · Aenys I · Maegor I, the Cruel · Jaehaerys, the Concilliator · Viserys I · Daemon · Rhaenyra · Aegon II · Aemond · Aegon III · Daeron I, the Young Dragon · Baelor the Blessed · Viserys II · Aegon IV, the Unworthy · Naerys · Aemon the Dragonknight · Daena the Defiant · Rhaena · Elaena · Daeron II, the Good · Daenerys Martell · Myriah Martell · Daemon Blackfyre · Brynden Rivers · Aegor Rivers · Shiera Seastar · Baelor Breakspear · Aerys I · Aelinor · Rhaegel · Maekar I · Aerion Brightflame · Aegon V, the Unlikely · Duncan the Small · Daeron Deceased members: Aerys II, the Mad · Rhaella Targaryen · Rhaegar Targaryen · Elia Martell · Rhaenys Targaryen · Aegon Targaryen · Viserys Targaryen · Drogo · Rhaego · Aemon Targaryen Household: Ser Jorah Mormont · Tyrion Lannister · {Ser Barristan Selmy} · {Rakharo} · Kovarro · Aggo · {Irri} · {Doreah} · Jhiqui · Malakho · Missandei · Grey Worm · Daario Naharis · {Mossador} · Malcolm Branfield · Croft Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Aggo?oldid=232587"