Amory Lorch Season(s) 2 First seen "What is Dead May Never Die" Last seen "The Old Gods and the New" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Titles Ser Status Deceased Death Killed by Jaqen H'ghar 
"The Old Gods and the New" Allegiance House Lannister 
House Lorch Portrayed by Fintan McKeown "I judged you might be good for something more than brutalizing peasants. I see I overestimated you." ―Tywin Lannister to Amory Lorch[src] 

Amory Lorch is a recurring character in the second season. He is played by Fintan McKeown and debuts in "What is Dead May Never Die." Ser Amory Lorch is a knight fighting for House Lannister in the War of the Five Kings. He was killed by Jaqen H'ghar at Harrenhal. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Ser Amory Lorch is a landed knight of House Lorch, a knightly house sworn to House Lannister. He has been a loyal vassal of the Lannisters for many years. The sigil of his House is a black manticore on a red field. Season 2Edit 

Lorch is raiding in the Riverlands when he is approached by a Gold Cloak with a warrant for the royal bastard Gendry. They have been run off by Yoren and his Night's Watch recruits who are harboring the boy. Lorch confronts Yoren's group and attacks them when they refuse to give up Gendry. He kills Yoren personally after his men have subdued him and then imprisons the survivors, ordering them to be taken to Harrenhal. He does not realize that Arya Stark and Gendry are among them. He questions them about Gendry and is tricked into believing that the slain Lommy Greenhands was his target because he was carrying Gendry's bull's head helm. 

Lorch and his men deliver the prisoners to Ser Gregor Clegane at Harrenhal. Ser Gregor oversees the torture of the captives, killing several of them. When Lord Tywin Lannister returns to Harrenhal he ends the interrogations and orders the prisoners put to work, criticizing his men for wasting valuable manpower. 

Lorch attends a war council held by Lord Tywin. Tywin criticizes his men for underestimating Robb Stark and demands that they devise a new strategy. Lorch reports rumors from spies that there is discontent in Robb's camp. Tywin is dismissive, saying that discontent is a part of war and that the very same spies would report the same from the Lannister side. 

Ser Amory is chastised by Lord Tywin during a war council after the knight's illiteracy means that a letter meant for Lord Damon of House Marbrand is instead accidentally sent to Lord Marlin of House Dormund, a vassal of House Stark. Exasperated, Tywin remarks that "my cupbearer reads better than you!" Later, Amory catches Arya Stark with a stolen letter and tries to seize her, and then heads to inform Tywin. Frantically, Arya seeks out&nbsp;the assassin Jaqen H'ghar and names Amory as her next kill. Ser Amory is killed with a poisoned dart dipped in wolfsbane just as he enters Lord Tywin's chambers. Tywin mistakes it for an assassination attempt on himself. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Image galleryEdit Ser Amory Lorch at the HBO viewer's guide. Ser Amory in Lannister armor in "What is Dead May Never Die." Tywin Lannister berates Amory Lorch for misdirecting his letter in "The Old Gods and the New". Ser Amory chasing Arya in "The Old Gods and the New." Ser Amory dead in "The Old Gods and the New." 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Amory Lorch is a noted servant of Lord Tywin Lannister and a member of House Lorch, a knightly house sworn to Casterly Rock. During the Sack of King's Landing at the end of Robert's Rebellion, Ser Amory Lorch and Ser Gregor Clegane were assigned to eliminate the last scions of House Targaryen, breaking into the royal apartments and brutally killing Prince Rhaegar's wife, Elia Martell, and their children, Aegon and Rhaenys, an act that has marred the reputation of both. 

Lorch killed Rhaenys by stabbing her about fifty times, even Tywin considering the manner of her death to be overly brutal. He asked Lorch why killing a four year old girl required so many thrusts, and Lorch answered that she kicked him and would not stop screaming. Tywin commented that if Lorch had half the brain a turnip has, he would have calmed Rhaenys with a few sweet words and used a soft silk pillow to smother her. In the TV series, it is not mentioned that he was involved in the killing of Rhaenys, her murder instead being attributed to Gregor Clegane. 

Considering he is not responsible for the killing of Princess Rhaenys and his backstory is cut from the TV series, Lorch is generally perceived as being less cruel than his book counterpart. 

In the books, Ser Amory comes into conflict with Yoren while hunting down the Brotherhood Without Banners instead of Gendry. Although Yoren assures Lorch multiple times that his caravan has nothing to do with the Brotherhood, Lorch picks a fight with him anyway without provocation or reason. 

There is no mention in the books that Lorch is illiterate. 

Lorch is not one of the names Arya gives to Jaqen, and was not killed by him. After Roose Bolton took Harrenhal, he and Vargo Hoat had Lorch thrown into the bear pit, where he was torn apart. Arya considered that poetic vengeance for Yoren's murder, as she had thought of Yoren as hairy and tough, like a bear. See alsoEdit Amory Lorch on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Lannister entry ↑ "What is Dead May Never Die" ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Amory_Lorch?oldid=229651"