Armeca Season(s) 1, 2 First seen "You Win or You Die" Last seen "Blackwater" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Status Alive Origin Flea Bottom, King's Landing Allegiance Petyr Baelish Portrayed by Sahara Knite "I like your nose. How many times did you break it?" ―Armeca to Bronn[src] 

Armeca is a recurring character in the first and second seasons. She is played by guest star Sahara Knite and debuts in "You Win or You Die." Armeca is a prostitute working in the brothel owned by Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish in King's Landing. Contents[show] Biography Background 

Armeca is a prostitute working in a brothel in King's Landing owned by Lord Petyr Baelish. Season 1 

She is "tutored" by the newly-arrived Ros, while Petyr lectures them on the art of seduction. Season 2 

She continues to work for Lord Petyr Baelish and feigns that she cannot speak the Common Tongue to appear exotic to her customers despite being from Flea Bottom in King's Landing itself. Ros is aware of her using this ploy. She is present at Lord Baelish's brothel when the gold cloaks, led by Lord Janos Slynt, appear to find Mhaegen and kill her daughter Barra, one of the late King Robert's bastard children. When Ros is too upset to work because of this incident Lord Petyr assigns her customer to Armeca, who has only just finished with one of her own. Petyr mistakenly calls her "Aremca". 

Armeca is in the Red Keep entertaining Bronn immediately before the Battle of the Blackwater. She admires his broken nose and asks how many times he has injured it. He tells her as he publicly undresses her. Their time is cut short by the arrival of Sandor Clegane, who antagonizes Bronn. They face off against one another but are interrupted when the bells sound a call to arms. Appearances Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the books 

Armeca is the second character (after Ros) created specifically for the television series and does not appear in the novels. See also Armeca on A Wiki of Ice and Fire References ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "Blackwater" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Armeca?oldid=229937"