The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Aron Santagar Season(s) 1 Appeared in "The Pointy End" Titles Ser Status Deceased Death Killed by Rioters in King's Landing 
"The Old Gods and the New" Allegiance House Santagar (by birth) 
House Baratheon of King's Landing Culture Dornishmen Portrayed by Unidentified "Ser Aron." ―Sansa Stark greets Aron Santagar[src] 

Aron Santagar is a background character in the first season. He is played by an unidentified extra and only appears in "The Pointy End." He is a member of House Santagar, a knightly house of Dorne. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

Ser Aron is present at a court session in the Red Keep in which Janos Slynt is created Lord Slynt and given the castle of Harrenhal and later Ser Barristan Selmy is dismissed from the Kingsguard. When Sansa Stark appears to ask for mercy for her father, she greets Ser Aron, though the knight turns away. 

Ser Aron dies during the riots in King's Landing. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Aron Santagar is the Master-at-Arms of the Red Keep. He's described by Ser Rodrik Cassel as a vain but honest man. In the first book, Ser Aron is secretly approached by Ser Rodrik to see if he might recognize the dagger used by the assassin sent to murder Bran Stark. He also participates in the Tourney of the Hand. 

Ser Aron perishes in the Riot of King's Landing. In the episode several courtiers are shown to be attacked by the rioting mob; it is unclear if any of these were meant to be Ser Aron. See alsoEdit Aron Santagar on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (major spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Pointy End" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of King's Landing Lord: King Tommen I Heir: Seat: Red Keep, King's Landing Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): King of the Andals and the First Men · Lord of the Seven Kingdoms · Protector of the Realm Current members: Queen Mother Cersei Lannister · Queen Margaery Tyrell Deceased members: King Robert I · King Joffrey I · Princess Myrcella Baratheon Household: Lord Mace Tyrell · Grand Maester Pycelle · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Boros Blount · Ser Balon Swann · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Ilyn Payne · Lord Gyles Rosby · Ser Aron Santagar · Qyburn · Septa Eglantine Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Aron_Santagar?oldid=232598"