The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Arryk Cargyll Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore First seen The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore) Status Deceased Allegiance Kingsguard 
Aegon II Targaryen 
House Cargyll Family Erryk Cargyll - twin brother "Twin brothers even ended up on opposite sides; died with tears on their cheeks as they cut each other down." ―Bronn[src] 

Ser Arryk Cargyll is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is long dead before the start of the series, and thus is not expected to appear. Arryk Cargyll was a renowned knight, and member of the Kingsguard who fought and died in the Dance of the Dragons, as well as the twin of Erryk Cargyll. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Ser Arryk was the twin brother of Ser Erryk Cargyll, who was also a member of the Kingsguard. The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore)Edit 

Ser Arryk and Ser Erryk Cargyll are mentioned as being twin brothers who ended up on opposite sides of the Targaryen civil war known as the Dance of the Dragons. The twin brothers supposedly met on the field of battle, and died at each others hand with tears on their cheeks. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Arryk Cargyll was also the twin brother of Ser Erryk, and both were knights in Viserys I's Kingsguard. 

When Aegon II Targaryen usurped the throne ahead of his sister Rhaenyra, and was crowned king by Lord Commander Criston Cole himself, it split the realm and the Kingsguard itself: three other Kingsguard sided with Aegon II and Ser Criston, but three others fled to join Rhaenyra's Queensgard. Ser Arryk sided with Aegon II, while Ser Erryk sided with Rhaenyra. 

Eventually, Ser Arryk was sent to infiltrate Rhaenyra's base of power at Dragonstone castle, pretending to be his twin brother, but he happened to run into Erryk in a hallway. In the ensuing duel, each brother died at the point of the other's sword. In some ways it was a microcosm of the entire Dance of the Dragons: a destructive civil war that set brother against brother, and for which there was no winner but mutual destruction. See alsoEdit Arryk Cargyll on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore)" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Arryk_Cargyll?oldid=229863"