The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Arys Oakheart Season(s) 1, 2, 5 First seen "You Win or You Die" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Titles Ser Status Alive Allegiance House Oakheart 
The Kingsguard Portrayed by Unknown 

Arys Oakheart is a recurring background character in the first, second and fifth seasons. He is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in "You Win or You Die". Ser Arys is a knight and a member of the Kingsguard and defends King Joffrey Baratheon as he defended King Robert Baratheon before him. He is sent with Princess Myrcella Baratheon to Dorne. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

Ser Arys was among the guards that attacked Eddard Stark when he tried to de-throne King Joffrey. He was also present when Ser Barristan Selmy was dismissed from the brotherhood  Season 2Edit 

Ser Arys (far right) in Princess Myrcella's retinue 

Ser Arys accompanies Princess Myrcella Baratheon as her sworn shield for her journey to Dorne. Season 5 Edit 

Ser Arys returns to King's Landing after Myrcella's arrival in Dorne and escorts King Tommen in his attempt to enter the Great Sept of Baelor to speak to the High Sparrow about the arrest of Ser Loras Tyrell. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Arys Oakheart is a member of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard, appointed after his predecessor - whose name hasn't been mentioned - perished during the Greyjoy Rebellion. He's a member of House Oakheart, a noble house from the Reach. 

He is regarded as one of the kinder Knights of the Kingsguard under King Joffrey, objecting at first to Joffrey's orders to beat Sansa Stark, then only hitting her as lightly as he dares. He is also of a much more pleasant demeanor, often engaging in pleasant conversation with the Stark girl. 

Arys remains in Dorne as Myrcella's sworn shield. During this time, Arianne Martell, Prince Doran's daughter and heiress, seduces him. She persuades him to take part in her plan to crown Myrcella to incite war with the Iron Throne in retaliation for the death of Oberyn Martell. The plan is foiled, and Myrcella is gravely injured and nearly killed by one of their escorts, Ser Gerold "Darkstar" Dayne. See alsoEdit Arys Oakheart on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of King's Landing Lord: King Tommen I Heir: Seat: Red Keep, King's Landing Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): King of the Andals and the First Men · Lord of the Seven Kingdoms · Protector of the Realm Current members: Queen Mother Cersei Lannister · Queen Margaery Tyrell Deceased members: King Robert I · King Joffrey I · Princess Myrcella Baratheon Household: Lord Mace Tyrell · Grand Maester Pycelle · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Boros Blount · Ser Balon Swann · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Ilyn Payne · Lord Gyles Rosby · Ser Aron Santagar · Qyburn · Septa Eglantine Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Arys_Oakheart?oldid=232539"