Information of this article, or portions of it, is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. See "In the books" for further explanation 

 
 Balon Swann Season(s) 2, 3, 5 First seen "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" Mentioned in "A Man Without Honor" Status Alive Allegiance Kingsguard 
House Swann "I remember everything about that day: your helmet, your horse, the rake lines in the dirt along the lists, where the sun was in the sky when you knocked Balon Swann in the dirt." ―Alton Lannister to Jaime[src] 

Balon Swann is an unseen character mentioned in the second season. Ser Balon Swann is a knight of some renown. Contents[show] Biography Season 2 

Ser Alton Lannister recalls that Ser Jaime Lannister defeated Ser Balon in the tourney at Willem Frey's wedding. Season 3 

Four members of the Kingsguard receive Tywin Lannister at the throne room, indicating one of the spots left by the death of Ser Mandon Moore and the desertion of Sandor Clegane has been filled. Season 5 

Five members of the Kingsguard escort King Tommen Baratheon to the steps before the Great Sept of Baelor so the king can meet with the High Sparrow. Members of the Faith Militant block them. Appearances Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Balon is a highly regarded knight. He is the second son of Lord Gulian Swann, the head of House Swann. He is good with a lance, better with a morningstar and exceptional with a bow. He replaces Ser Preston Greenfield in the Kingsguard following his death in the Riot of King's Landing. 

In the TV series, Ser Preston is mentioned as still being alive at the time of Joffrey's wedding in Season 4. Nevertheless, a new member of the Kingsguard is present in Season 3's "The Bear and the Maiden Fair". In the books, after Sandor Clegane deserted his post during the Battle of the Blackwater his place on the Kingsguard was filled by Ser Osmund Kettleblack, but because neither Ser Osmund nor his subplot have been introduced in the TV series, it is possible that it was Balon who replaced Sandor in the TV continuity. 

Ser&nbsp;Balon also previously competed against&nbsp;Ser&nbsp;Jaime&nbsp;Lannister&nbsp;in the books. Jaime&nbsp;discusses Balon's&nbsp;renown as a tourney knight and melee fighter upon meeting him in the White Tower as a fellow Kingsguard, and the two share a common respect for each other, where Balon&nbsp;is eventually assigned by Jaime as the primary Kingsguard for the King. 

Ser Balon is the first to testify in the trial of Tyrion Lannister. Unlike the rest of the witnesses, his testimony is wholly true, objective and in favor of Tyrion: he praises Tyrion for his bravery in the Battle of the Blackwater; he claims that he thinks Tyrion is innocent; when describing how Tyrion beat Joffrey following the Riot of King's Landing, he claims that it was only a fit of wroth. Tyrion wonders why offer a witness that believes him innocent, until Ser Meryn Trant comes to testify. Tyrion realizes then that Cersei deliberately began with a man known to be honest, and milked him for all he would give, and every witness to follow will tell a worse tale. 

Ser Balon is the only of the current Kingsguard that Jaime, as the Lord Commander, has nothing negative to comment about, and does not need to put him in his place. 

In the books, Cersei also sends a Kingsguard to take her daughter Myrcella back from Dorne to King's Landing, but it is Balon Swann, not Jaime Lannister, who in turn is sent away to pacify the Riverlands. Contrary to Jaime's furtive mission in the TV series, Swann goes to Dorne in an official capacity. See also Balon Swann on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) References ↑ "A Man Without Honor" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair (episode)" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Balon_Swann?oldid=230905"