Bannen Season(s) 3 Mentioned in "And Now His Watch is Ended" Status Deceased Origin White Harbor Allegiance The Night's Watch Culture Northmen Jeor Mormont: "His name was Bannen. He's a good man, good ranger. He came to us from... Where did he come from?" Eddison Tollett: "Down White Harbor way." Jeor Mormont: "He came to us from White Harbor. Never failed in his duty. Keep his vows best he could. He rode far, fought fiercely. We shall never see his like again....and now his watch is ended." — Bannen's eulogy[src] 

Bannen is an unseen character in the third season. He's a member of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Bannen is a Ranger of the Night's Watch, originally from White Harbor, the only city in the North. He takes part in the Great Ranging led by Lord Commander Jeor Mormont and survives the Battle of the Fist of the First Men, though he's injured. Season 3Edit 

Bannen's funeral Bannen perishes while at Craster's Keep and a funeral is held by his sworn brothers. Grenn says he's surprised a broken foot could kill a man. Rast, however, points out that Craster functionally starved him to death by giving them as little food as possible. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Bannen is one of survivors of the battle at the Fist of the First Men who make it to Craster's Keep. He and eleven others are critically wounded. Sam and Giant try to treat him and the other injured men, but the medicine bags have been lost during the battle, thus all they can do is keep the wounded dry and warm and feed them. The ranger Kedge Whiteye has taken Bannen's mangled foot, but it is too little and too late. Bannen keeps saying "I'm cold. I'm so cold". Sam tries to feed him onion broth, but he cannot swallow. Craster nastily comments "That one's dead. Be kinder to stick a knife in his chest than that spoon down his throat, you ask me". 

After lying in agony at least nine days, Bannen dies of his injuries, much as he did in the TV series. In the book it is Dirk who blames Craster in Bannen's death. See alsoEdit Bannen on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Fire and Blood" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Bannen?oldid=228923"