Baratheon General Season(s) 5 First seen "The Dance of Dragons" Last seen "Mother's Mercy" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Deceased Death Killed in the Battle of Winterfell 
"Mother's Mercy" Allegiance House Baratheon of Dragonstone Portrayed by Nigel O'Neill "There's not going to be a siege, Your Grace." ―The General to Stannis Baratheon[src] 

A Baratheon General is a recurring character in the fifth season. He is played by Nigel O'Neill. Contents[show] Biography Edit Background Edit 

He is a general loyal to House Baratheon of Dragonstone, serving Stannis Baratheon's army in his campaign to retake the North from House Bolton. Season 5 Edit 

Following Ramsay Bolton's attack on the camp, Stannis orders him to put the guards who were on watch duty in chains and question them to find out if they fell asleep or conspired with the enemy, and then hang them. He is later present during Shireen Baratheon's sacrifice. He looks visibly distressed as he watches her burn alive. 

Later, he informs Stannis that nearly half of his army has deserted him, including all the sellswords and horses. He stands behind Stannis as they discover Selyse Baratheon's swaying corpse beneath a tree where she hanged herself. The General then tells Stannis that Melisandre was just seen riding out of camp. Stannis then orders him to get the men into marching formation. As the army approaches Winterfell, they are surprised and attacked by a large force of Bolton cavalry, where the General is killed. Appearances Edit Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the main generals remaining with Stannis Baratheon after he moves his remaining forces to the Wall are Ser Richard Horpe, Ser Godry Farring, and Ser Justin Massey. ReferencesEdit ↑  ↑  ↑ "The Dance of Dragons" ↑ "Mother's Mercy" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of Dragonstone Lord: {King Stannis Baratheon} Heir: None Seat: Dragonstone Lands: Blackwater Bay and the Stormlands Title(s): Lord of Dragonstone Current members: None Deceased members: Queen Selyse Florent · Princess Shireen Baratheon · Petyr Baratheon · Tommard Baratheon · Edric Baratheon Household: {Maester Cressen} · Lady Melisandre · {Lord Axell Florent} · Ser Davos Seaworth · Ser Imry Florent · {Matthos Seaworth} · Bert · {General} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Baratheon_General?oldid=232311"