Bert Season(s) 3 Mentioned in "Kissed by Fire" Status Alive Allegiance House Baratheon of Dragonstone "He's the fat one. He's on guard duty tonight. He likes to drink wine and sleep a lot." ―Princess Shireen Baratheon[src] 

Bert is an unseen character mentioned in the third season episode "Kissed by Fire". He is a guard of House Baratheon of Dragonstone serving in the dungeons of the castle. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Bert is fond of wine. Season 3Edit 

Taking advantage of Bert falling asleep while drunk with wine, Princess Shireen Baratheon visits the imprisoned Ser Davos Seaworth.  In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no character named Bert. However, Davos has two gaolers while incarcerated. One is described as "broad and squat, with thick shoulders and huge strong hands"; Davos names him Porridge as a result of him regularly bringing Davos porridge, and considers him the kinder and more personable of the two, even suspecting he feeds the rats. Once Davos thought he heard Porridge talking to the rats as if they were children, but he might have imagined it. The other is older and described as "stooped and sallow", and is called Lamprey due to once bringing Davos half a lamprey pie (keep in mind that lamprey pie is considered a delicacy). 

Davos knows the gaolers would be deaf to pleas for freedom or mercy, so instead he keeps asking them questions, hoping perhaps one day one might answer: he asks about news of the war, if the king is well, about his son Devan, about Shireen, about Salladhor Saan, about the weather, have the autumn storms begun yet, and if ships still sail the narrow sea. He receives no answers, perhaps because the gaolers are ordered not to speak with him. Sometimes Porridge gives him a look, and for half a heartbeat Davos would think that he is about to speak. With Lamprey there is not even that much. 

It is unknown if Bert is based on either of them, although he matches Porridge's description more. Just like with Lamprey and Porridge, Davos is not aware of Bert's real name (at least until Shireen informs him). 

Bert is maybe based on Ser Bartimus, the chief gaoler of the prison at the White Harbor. Whenever Ser Bartimus is drunk (which is almost every day), he likes to boast of how he had saved Lord Wyman Manderly's life at the Battle of the Trident. See also Edit "Porridge" on A Wiki of Ice and Fire References Edit ↑ "The North Remembers" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of Dragonstone Lord: {King Stannis Baratheon} Heir: None Seat: Dragonstone Lands: Blackwater Bay and the Stormlands Title(s): Lord of Dragonstone Current members: None Deceased members: Queen Selyse Florent · Princess Shireen Baratheon · Petyr Baratheon · Tommard Baratheon · Edric Baratheon Household: {Maester Cressen} · Lady Melisandre · {Lord Axell Florent} · Ser Davos Seaworth · Ser Imry Florent · {Matthos Seaworth} · Bert · {General} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Bert?oldid=227841"