Biter Season(s) 1, 2, 4 First seen "Fire and Blood" (unidentified) Last seen "Mockingbird" Appeared in 5 episodes (see below) Status Deceased Death Neck broken by the Hound 
"Mockingbird" Allegiance House Lannister Portrayed by Gerard Jordan Arya: "They don't scare me." Gendry: "Well, then you're stupid: They scare me." — Arya and Gendry discussing Rorge, Biter, and Jaqen[src] 

Biter is a recurring character in the first, second and fourth seasons. He is played by Gerard Jordan and debuts in "The Night Lands," though he was also portrayed by an unidentified extra in "Fire and Blood". Biter is a menacing criminal forcibly recruited into the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Biter is a mute criminal from King's Landing with filed teeth. Along with Rorge and Jaqen H'ghar, he was fished out of the dungeons by Yoren and forcibly recruited into the Night's Watch. He is accompanying the rest of Yoren's new recruits northwards to the Wall. Season 2Edit 

Biter, alongside Rorge and Jaqen H'ghar are kept inside a cage for their trip to the Wall. When Jaqen asks "Arry" (actually Arya Stark) for water, Rorge demands beer and insults Arya, who says that he should have asked nicely and hits Rorge's hand with a stick. He recoils and then tries to grab Arya through the cage. Biter moves up behind Rorge and hisses as Rorge threatens Arya again. 

The group is resting in a barn when they are roused to arms by Yoren and told they are being attacked. As they rush outside one man trips and drops his torch, setting a fire near the prisoner wagon. They are met by Ser Amory Lorch and a force of men loyal to House Lannister. Lorch points out the Gold Cloaks with him and says that they have come for Gendry, a royal bastard. Lorch orders Yoren and the recruits to drop their weapons. Yoren remains defiant and Lorch orders him shot. 

Seeing their leader killed Gendry and many of the other recruits join the fight. Arya is distracted by Jaqen calling for help as the flames lick the bars of the cage. She hands him an axe before rushing to join the fray. They use it to escape the wagon. Gendry is overwhelmed and knocked down. As Arya runs round a corner she is knocked over and taken prisoner along with the other survivors. 

Rorge, Biter and Jaqen are inducted into the Lannister army. They serve at Harrenhal, where their former fellow recruits are also taken as captives. Arya approaches Rorge and Biter looking for Jaqen. Rorge repeats his earlier threats and shows no acknowledgement of her saving his life. Season 4Edit 

Arya and The Hound come across a homestead recently burned and pillaged by Rorge and Biter. After granting a mortally wounded peasant a merciful death, the Hound is suddenly ambushed from behind by Biter who sinks his teeth into his flesh. The Hound quickly overpowers Biter and snaps his neck, killing him. Rorge then attempts to accost them before being recognized and slayed by Arya. 

Later, the bite wound inflicted by Biter begins to fester due to the Hound's fear of cauterizing it with fire. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Image galleryEdit Rorge &amp; Biter at Harrenhal 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit 

The character speculated to be Biter in "Fire and Blood", next to the alleged Rorge 

Fans have speculated that the three prisoners in Yoren's wagon in the final episode of the first season of the series were meant to be Rorge, Biter and (in a cloak with his face hidden) Jaqen H'ghar. However, these three roles were played by extras, with full-time actors for the roles not hired until filming of Season 2 was underway. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire&nbsp;novels, Biter is a mindless, mute thug from King's Landing, an associate of Rorge. According to semi-canon source, Rorge ran several fighting pits where dogs and bears would fight one another and also people. Biter fought in these pits and developed a reputation for savage cruelty. He has no tongue and only speaks through hisses. His teeth have been filed to points. 

Rorge and Biter helped Arya Stark and Jaqen H'ghar to free the Northern prisoners at Harrenhal. Afterwards they join the Brave Companions, the notorious sellsword company led by Vargo Hoat. 

Biter is known for his bestial savagery. He tears flesh out of his victims' bodies with his sharpened teeth. According to Rorge, Biter once chewed the breasts of a septa sometime during their pillaging. 

While Vargo Hoat becomes delirious due to his festering head injury, many of the Brave Companions leave Harrenhal, among them Rorge and Biter. They and five more form a gang that sacks Saltpans. They never encounter Arya and the Hound. 

Rorge and Biter have nothing to do with the dying man that Arya and the Hound find. He was injured by a Bolton soldier. 

Rorge's gang encounters&nbsp;Brienne near the Inn at the Crossroads. Brienne fights Rorge and kills him, but&nbsp;Biter tackles her down, overcomes her and savagely chews her face. Eventually Gendry intervenes and kills Biter by driving a spear through the back of his neck, but not before Brienne's face is horribly disfigured. See alsoEdit Biter on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ 2.0 2.1 "What is Dead May Never Die" ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" ↑ "Mockingbird" ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Biter?oldid=227930"