This article is a stub, an article too short to provide more than rudimentary information about a subject. You can help the Game of Thrones Wiki by expanding it. Bloodsong Season(s) Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series First seen "A Nest of Vipers" Last seen "A Nest of Vipers or "The Ice Dragon Appeared in 1 or 2 episodes Status Determinated Death Stabbed through the chest by Asher Forrester or presumably killed by Whitehill soldiers. Portrayed by Paul Nakauchi "You all see this cockless Westerosi? He's come to order us to battle like our Masters did! I kill no man because another orders me to. I kill a man because it pleases me!" ―Bloodsong to Asher Forrester[src] 

Bloodsong is a recently freed pit fighter in Meereen. Judging by his appearance and accent, he is likely from eastern&nbsp;Essos, possibly Yi Ti. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Not much is known about Bloodsong other than he is a arrogant and skillful pit fighter. He took great pleasure from killing other pit fighters. "A Nest of Vipers"Edit 

When Asher Forrester came to the fighting pit looking for fighters to aid his family, the leader of a group a now freed pit fighter, Amaya, asks Asher to fight Bloodsong to prove his worth. When Asher eventually wins, he is given the choice to either finish Bloodsong off or spare him. Killing him impresses the pit fighters, who cheer Asher's name. 

If spared, Bloodsong accompanies Asher to Westeros, saying that he will seek a more honorable death there. When the Whitehill ambush is sprung in the port town, Bloodsong is trapped outside of the gate along with most of the fighters. He escapes with either Asher or Rodrik while the other Forrester brother stays behind. "The Ice Dragon"Edit 

Bloodsong first appears with Rodrik or Asher he is either angry about how hungry he is or he is seen ambushing and killing Whitehill soldiers. 

He later is present during the battle of ironrath he kills numerous soldiers. It's unknown what happens to him as he is not seen being killed along with the rest of the pit fighters and the remaining forrester soldiers, the lord, Talia and either the sentinel, traitor or Gwyn are the only known people who have escaped. AppearancesEdit Telltale Game Series appearances Iron From Ice The Lost Lords The Sword in the Darkness Sons of Winter A Nest of Vipers The Ice Dragon QuotesEdit 

Spoken by Bloodsong "You denied me an honorable death. So I must find one in Westeros." ―Bloodsong to Asher Forrester, if spared[src] Image GalleryEdit 
Add a photo to this gallery Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Bloodsong?oldid=231944"