Borba Season(s) 2 First seen "The Ghost of Harrenhal" Last seen "The Old Gods and the New" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Ranger Status Deceased Death Killed by wildlings Allegiance The Night's Watch Portrayed by Unknown 

Borba is a recurring background character in the second season. He is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in "The Ghost of Harrenhal." Borba is a member of the Night's Watch, a Ranger serving under Qhorin Halfhand. He is killed by wildlings while scouting the Skirling Pass. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

He is a Ranger of the Night's Watch. Season 2Edit 

After meeting the force led by Lord Commander Jeor Mormont at the Fist of the First Men, Qhorin selects Stonesnake, Harker, and Borba for a scouting party to ambush a group of wildling lookouts. They are joined by Jon Snow. They locate and surprise the lookouts, killing all but one of them. Jon is left to execute the wildling survivor. Jon does not return and they return for him. They pick up his tracks but are ambushed by wildlings. Harker, Stonesnake and Borba are killed while Qhorin is captured. Jon had spared the captive and she leads him into a similar ambush. Qhorin seizes the opportunity to insert Jon as an infiltrator in the wildling ranks by berating him for the deaths of the others publicly. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no character of this name. Qhorin's party includes Stonesnake and Jon Snow as in the show but also features "Squire" Dalbridge and Ebben. See alsoEdit Ebben on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (major spoilers from the books) Squire Dalbridge on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (major spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Borba?oldid=232637"