Boros Blount Season(s) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 First seen "You Win or You Die" / 
 "Blackwater" (identified) Appeared in 6 episodes (see below) Titles Ser Also known as The Fat Status Alive Allegiance House Blount 
The Kingsguard Portrayed by Unidentified "Maybe I'll pay you a visit tonight after my uncle passes out. How'd you like that?... You wouldn't? That's all right. Ser Meryn and Ser Boros will hold you down." ―King Joffrey Baratheon threatens to rape Sansa Stark on her wedding night[src] 

Boros Blount is a recurring background character in the first, second and third seasons. He is played by an unidentified extra and is first identified by name in "Blackwater." Ser Boros Blount is a member of the Kingsguard and defends King Joffrey Baratheon as he defended King Robert Baratheon before him. Contents[show] Biography Background 

Ser Boros is a member of House Blount, a noble house from the Crownlands. Season 1 

Ser Boros was among the guards that attacked Eddard Stark when he tried to de-throne King Joffrey. He was also present when Ser Barristan Selmy was dismissed from the Kingsguard. Season 2 

Tyrion rallying the troops 

During the Battle of the Blackwater, Ser Boros and Ser Mandon Moore remain at the side of King Joffrey as he oversees the city's defenses alongside Tyrion Lannister, the Hand of the King. When Queen Cersei learns that the forces of Stannis Baratheon have almost breached the walls, she orders Joffrey to be brought into the safety of the Red Keep. When told that he has to leave the wall at the behest of Queen Cersei, Joffrey, who has never shown much courage in the face of adversity, complies and orders Ser Mandon and Ser Boros to aid Tyrion and fight on in his stead. They stand behind Tyrion as he gives a speech to rally the troops.  Season 3 

Ser Boros, along with his three sworn brothers, is present at the Great Hall when Tywin Lannister presents himself before King Joffrey. 

During the feast to celebrate the wedding of Tyrion Lannister and Sansa Stark, King Joffrey taunts Sansa by telling her that he may rape her, and have Ser Meryn and Ser Boros hold her as he does it. Season 4 

Ser Jaime goes over the security plans for the Royal Wedding feast with Ser Meryn Trant, mentioning the place in which Ser Boros will be stationed 

After King Joffrey's assassination, Cersei chastises Ser Jaime for posting only Ser Boros outside Tommen's door, and commands him to have four men guarding the future king day and night. Season 5 

Five members of the Kingsguard escort King Tommen Baratheon to the steps before the Great Sept of Baelor so the king can meet with the High Sparrow. Members of the Faith Militant block them. Appearances Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the books 

Boros Blount has a more prominent role in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels. In the TV series he is merely a background character, and many of his lines and actions are given to his fellow Kingsguard Ser Meryn Trant. Blount is a member of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard. He is a short-tempered, ugly man with a broad chest and short, bandy legs. He has a flat nose, jowls and grey hair. Ser Jaime Lannister considers him an angry paper shield. Many characters throughout the series think of Blount with contempt due to the man's cowardice. Like Trant, Varys considers him one of "Cersei's creatures". 

Boros, along with the other five Kingsguard members present, openly laughs when his Lord Commander Barristan Selmy is unlawfully dismissed from service. 

In the books, it is Boros Blount who carries out Joffrey's orders to undress and beat Sansa Stark instead of Ser Meryn. He's also absent during the Battle of the Blackwater, having been dismissed for cowardice after yielding Prince Tommen to Tyrion's agents when the Prince is smuggled out of King's Landing to protect his life from the impending attack by Stannis Baratheon. However, he is reinstated to the Kingsguard by Tywin Lannister upon his return as Hand of the King, to fill the vacancy left by the Hound when he deserted. Jaime thinks that his sister should have never dismissed Boros, but their father only compounded the shame by reinstating him. 

Following Joffrey's death by poisoning, Jaime makes Boros the offical food taster for King Tommen, as he deems him unfit to do anything else. Boros considers this a shameful post for a knight of the Kingsguard, grabs the hilt of his sword and says angrily "You should be the food taster, it seems to me. What else is a cripple good for?" Jaime smiles and challenges Boros to fight him, although he is aware that even fat, aging, and ordinary swordsman like Boros can hack him into bloody pieces. Luckily for Jaime, Boros is too cowardly to accept the challenge. He spits at Jaime's feet and storms outside, but complies in this new role. 

In the trial of Tyrion Lannister, Boros testifies after Meryn Trant, repeating what Meryn said. Whatever dislike Boros harbors toward Cersei for dismissing him from the Kingsguard, he says the words she wants all the same. 

Sansa thinks that Boros Blount is "the worst of the Kingsguard, an ugly man with a foul temper, all scowls and jowls", which is quite an accurate description of him. See also Boros Blount on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) References ↑ The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore) ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Blackwater" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" ↑ "Second Sons" ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Oathkeeper" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of King's Landing Lord: King Tommen I Heir: Seat: Red Keep, King's Landing Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): King of the Andals and the First Men · Lord of the Seven Kingdoms · Protector of the Realm Current members: Queen Mother Cersei Lannister · Queen Margaery Tyrell Deceased members: King Robert I · King Joffrey I · Princess Myrcella Baratheon Household: Lord Mace Tyrell · Grand Maester Pycelle · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Boros Blount · Ser Balon Swann · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Ilyn Payne · Lord Gyles Rosby · Ser Aron Santagar · Qyburn · Septa Eglantine Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Boros_Blount?oldid=232535"