Bowen Season(s) Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series First seen "Iron From Ice" Last seen "Iron From Ice" or "The Ice Dragon" Appeared in 1 or 2 episodes Titles Squire Status Determinant Death Stabbed in the neck by a soldier of House Frey (player-determined) 
 Stabbed through the chest by Harys (player-determined) 
"Iron From Ice" or "The Ice Dragon" (player-determined) Allegiance House Forrester Culture Northmen Portrayed by Matthew Mercer "All I'm saying is at this rate we'll never be more than this, which is nothing. The lowest of the low. For all I know we could be squires for life." ―Bowen to Gared Tuttle[src] 

Bowen is Norren's squire, and is in service to House Forrester. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Bowen became the squire of Norren, a respectable soldier in service of House Forrester and befriended Gared Tuttle who was the squire of Gregor Forrester. He was known to be a squire for longer than Gared was, he was also concerned that he would never achieve anything higher. "Iron From Ice"Edit 

Bowen and Gared talking. Bowen is among the forces of the Northern army camped outside The Twins for The Wedding of Edmure Tully. He and Gared are sent to fetch more wine during which Gared notices that the Frey soldiers are carrying weapons, Bowen notices that Gared is concerned but doesn't take it seriously and tells him to help carry the wine. When Gared realises what is about to happen he is faced with a choice: save the oblivious Bowen from the approaching soldier or race back to camp to try and warn Lord Forrester of the threat before it begins, if he chooses the latter then Bowen is killed as soon as Gared begins to leave. In this case, Norren will ask Gared if he left Bowen behind. 

If Gared chooses to save Bowen then the two run back towards their camp but get separated in the chaos, however both manage to find Lord Forrester and Norren. After Lord Forrester is wounded Bowen and Norren stay behind to help Gregor and Gared escape. "The Ice Dragon"Edit 

Bowen is killed by Harys. If Bowen was saved by Gared, he appears during the Siege of Ironrath if Asher was saved at the harbor and Elissa Forrester poisoned herself to kill Ludd Whitehill. As Asher&nbsp;is fighting Harys, Bowen saves the Forrester lord from death by stabbing Harys in the back. Harys then quickly stabs Bowen through the chest with his sword, killing him. If Asher does not poision Ludd or if Rodrik is saved, Bowen's fate is unknown. AppearancesEdit Telltale Game Series appearances Iron From Ice The Lost Lords The Sword in the Darkness Sons of Winter A Nest of Vipers The Ice Dragon Image GalleryEdit Bowen getting stabbed. (Player determined) Bowen and Gared running back to the Forrester camp. Bowen kills a Frey soldier. Bowen stays behind with Norren. 
Add a photo to this gallery ReferencesEdit ↑ "Iron From Ice" ↑ "The Ice Dragon" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Forrester Lord: Lord Rodrik Forrester or Lord Asher Forrester Heir: Ryon Forrester Seat: Ironrath (formerly) Lands: The Wolfswood, The North Title(s): Lord of Ironrath (formerly) Ancestors: Gerhard Forrester · Cedric Forrester· Thorren Forrester Current members: Elsera Snow · Josera Snow · Talia Forrester · Ryon Forrester · Mira Forrester (player-determined) Deceased members: Gregor Forrester · Elissa Forrester · Rodrik Forrester (player-determined) · Asher Forrester (player-determined) · Mira Forrester (player-determined) · Ethan Forrester Household: Royland Degore · {Ortengryn} · Gared Tuttle · Duncan Tuttle · Malcolm Branfield · Beskha · {Norren} · Bowen · Erik · {Thermund} · {Gared's father} · {Gared's sister} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Bowen_(Squire)?oldid=227636"