Bruni Season(s) 3 Mentioned in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" Status Deceased Death Killed as wight by Osha Origin Beyond the Wall Allegiance Free Folk Culture Free Folk Family Osha - wife "I had a man once, a good man. Bruni his name was. I was his and he was mine." ―Osha[src] 

Bruni is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is deceased when the events of the series begin and is not expected to appear in the series. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Bruni&nbsp;was a wilding who was involved with Osha. Season 3Edit 

Osha told the story about her husband Bruni. He was a good man who loved her. One day he disappeared, and everyone said he'd simply left her, but she knew him better than that. One night he did return to their hut - as an undead wight, with skin pale as a dead man's and his eyes bluer than clear sky. Bruni&nbsp;began to strangle her to death. Somehow she managed to get hold of a knife, and rammed it deep into his heart, but he didn't even seem to notice. Osha ultimately managed to get away by burning down their hut with Bruni&nbsp;inside it. QuotesEdit "None of you know. None of you been up there. I had a man once, a good man. Bruni his name was. I was his and he was mine. But one night Bruni disappears. People said he left me. But I knew him. He’d never leave me. Not for long. Then he would come back. And he did. He came in through the back of the hut. Only it wasn’t Bruni, not really. His skin was pale, like a dead man’s. His eyes bluer than clear sky. He came at me, grabbed me by the neck and squeezed so hard I could feel the life slipping out of me. I don’t know how I got the knife. But when I did I stuck it deep into his heart. And he hardly seemed to notice. I had to burn our hut down with him inside. I didn’t ask the Gods what it meant. I didn’t need to. I already did. The North was no place for men to be. Not anymore. I promised your maester I’d get you to Castle Black, and no further." ―Osha[src] In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Bruni&nbsp;is never mentioned, nor any relatives of Osha. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Bruni?oldid=221010"