Chella Season(s) 1, 2 First seen "The Pointy End" Last seen "The North Remembers" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Status Alive Origin The Mountains of the Moon, Westeros Allegiance The Black Ears 
Tyrion Lannister (temporary alliance) Culture Hill Tribes Family Cheyk - father Portrayed by Unidentified "This fair maid is Chella, daughter of Cheyk, leader of the Black Ears." ―Tyrion Lannister[src] 

Chella is a recurring background character in the first season. She is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in "The Pointy End." Chella is the leader of the Black Ears clan and is fighting for House Lannister in the War of the Five Kings. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Chella, daughter of Cheyk, is the leader of the Black Ears, one of the hill tribes living in the foothills of the Mountains of the Moon on the western edge of the Vale of Arryn. She is not of remarkable stature, but wears a necklace of ears around her neck, with each ear coming from a slain foe. Her success in battle has seen her rise high amongst the hill tribes. Season 1Edit 

Chella accompanies Shagga, Timett, Tyrion Lannister and Bronn to the Lannister army encampment when Tyrion promises the hill tribes weapons and autonomy from the Eyrie. Tywin Lannister agrees to honor the bargain Tyrion has made with them. The Black Ears take part in the Battle of the Green Fork, helping the Lannister forces win the engagement, and several are seen cutting ears off the fallen foes on the battlefield. Season 2Edit 

Chella is part of Tyrion's entourage as he arrives at King's Landing 

Chella&nbsp;and her men escort&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;to&nbsp;King's Landing,&nbsp;where he takes his place as Acting&nbsp;Hand of the King&nbsp;on behalf of&nbsp;Tywin. 

Following the Battle of the Blackwater, all members of the Hill tribes receive payment from Lord Tywin Lannister and are sent away from King's Landing. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season two credits The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Black Ears are noted for their habit of collecting the ears of fallen foes. Chella has forty-six ears on her necklace, and boasts that her sons have nearly fifty between them. She hasn't necessarily killed all of their owners; it is common practice for her tribe to cut the ears off of defeated prisoners as trophies, but they often let them leave with their lives. See alsoEdit Chella on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "Valar Morghulis" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Chella?oldid=232595"