Child of the Forest Season(s) 4 First seen "The Children" Appeared in 1 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance Children of the Forest Culture Children of the Forest Religion Old Gods of the Forest Portrayed by Alice Hewkin "The First Men called us 'the Children', but we were born long before them." ―Leaf[src]This child of the forest&nbsp;is a background character in&nbsp;the fourth season. She is a member of the non-human race known as the Children of the Forest. Contents[show] BiographyEdit ​Season 4Edit 

When a fellow Child of the Forest, Leaf, saves&nbsp;Bran Stark and two of his companions from&nbsp;wights&nbsp;and leads them into the cave of the Three-eyed raven, this Child of the Forest looks upon them from the darkness. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children ​In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the children of the forest at the cave are in service to the Three-eyed raven. They are described as having nut-brown skin that is dappled like a deer's with paler spots, large ears, large liquid gold and green eyes which are slitted like a cat's eyes. Their hair is a tangle of brown, red and gold, autumn colors, with vines and twigs and withered flowers woven through it. They wear a cloak of leaves. Bran thinks that from far away one of the children in particular, Leaf, looks no older than himself or one of his sisters, but close at hand she seems far older, and has a woman’s voice, high and sweet, with a strange music in it like none Bran has ever heard, and a deep sadness. 

There are at least five other Children of the Forest in the cave besides Leaf. Their real names in the True Tongue of the Children are very long and possibly unpronounceable by humans. Therefore Bran made up nicknames to refer to each of them by, including Ash, Black Knife, Coals, Scales, and Snowylocks. See alsoEdit Children of the Forest on A Wiki of Ice and Fire&nbsp;(MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Children" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Child_of_the_Forest_2_(The_Children)?oldid=232638"