Clydas Season(s) 1 Appeared in "You Win or You Die" Status Alive Allegiance Night's Watch Portrayed by Unidentified 

Clydas is a background character in the first season. He is played by an unidentified extra and only appears in "You Win or You Die." He is a Steward of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Clydas is one of the Stewards that assists Maester Aemon. Season 1Edit 

Clydas is present during the speech Lord Commander Jeor Mormont gave to the "graduating" recruits. After the speech is over and the recruits are assigned their orders, Clydas assists blind Maester Aemon walk towards the newly made stewards to give them their assignment. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Clydas is described as ugly: short, bald, chinless, hunched, with pink eyes and rounded shoulders. Jon Snow estimates him to be about 60-years-old. A few white hairs still cling to his scalp. Alongside Chett he tends to Aemon's needs and the ravens of Castle Black. When Samwell Tarly replaces Chett, Clydas remains assisting the blind maester. See alsoEdit Clydas on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "You Win or You Die" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Clydas?oldid=229973"