The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Cohollo Season(s) 1 First seen "Winter is Coming" Last seen "Baelor" Appeared in 4 episodes Titles Bloodrider Status Alive Origin Dothraki sea Allegiance Khal Drogo Religion Great Stallion Portrayed by Unidentified "Qoy Qoyi (Dothraki: Blood of my blood)" ―Cohollo to Drogo[src] 

Cohollo is a recurring background character in the first season. He is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in the series premiere. Cohollo is a bloodrider to Khal Drogo. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Cohollo is a Dothraki bloodrider in the service of Khal Drogo. He is one of Drogo's closest allies and a stalwart warrior who favors the Arakh. Season 1Edit 

Cohollo, alongside Qotho and Haggo, accompanies Khal Drogo to view his bride, Daenerys Targaryen. 

When a drunken Viserys threatens Daenerys and her unborn child, Qotho and Cohollo restrain him while Drogo pours molten gold over his head, killing him. 

Following the raid of a Lhazareen village in Lhazar, Mago defies Drogo. Cohollo, along with his fellow bloodriders, steps forward to defend&nbsp;Drogo's honor, only for the Khal to take matters in his own hands. 

Drogo's wound festers and he becomes seriously ill. He falls from his horse in front of the khalasar, a sign of great weakness. Daenerys and then Cohollo kneel to the sides of the khal to check on him, while Qotho and Haggo remain mounted. Later, when Qotho takes Mirri Maz Duur to Drogo and Daenerys's tent, Cohollo accompanies him. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Cohollo is the eldest of Drogo's three bloodriders and the most kind to Daenerys. He had saved Drogo from sellswords when he was very young. He's described as a squat bald man with a crooked nose and a mouth full of broken teeth. 

During the wedding of Daenerys and Drogo, Cohollo gives them a arakh chased in gold. When the three bloodriders attempt to stop the Mirri Maz Duur's blood magic ritual to heal Drogo, Cohollo is killed by Aggo. See alsoEdit Cohollo on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Winter is Coming" ↑ "A Golden Crown" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Cohollo?oldid=232600"