Cooper Season(s) 4 Appeared in "The Watchers on the Wall" Titles Ranger Status Deceased Death Killed fighting Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg 
"The Watchers on the Wall" Allegiance The Night's Watch Portrayed by Joe Claflin "I shall wear no crowns and win no glory. I shall live and die at my post. I am the sword in the darkness. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the shield that guards the realms of men. I pledge my life and honor to the Night's Watch, for this night and all the nights to come." ―Cooper's last words[src] 

Cooper&nbsp;​is a minor character in the&nbsp;fourth season. He is a member of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit ​Season 4Edit 

During the&nbsp;Battle of Castle Black, Cooper takes part in defending the Wall against Mance Rayder 's forces. He helps load the barrels onto the ramps. When&nbsp;Castle Black's inner gate is threatened by a giant, he accompanies Grenn, Hill, and other black brothers to defend it. They successfully kill the giant, but all of the black brothers are slain in the process. Their bodies are discovered by Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly after the battle. After the arrival of&nbsp;Stannis Baratheon and his forces, though not seen Cooper is among the numerous bodies of fallen black brothers burned in Castle Black's courtyard. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children ​In the booksEdit 

​In&nbsp;the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no character by this name. Of the four men that accompany Donal Noye to face Mag the Mighty, only one is mentioned by his name - Spotted Pate of Maidenpool. The names of the other three are not mentioned. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Watchers on the Wall" ↑ "The Children" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Cooper?oldid=228375"