Copper King Season(s) 2 First seen "Garden of Bones" Last seen "A Man Without Honor" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Mentioned in "The Old Gods and the New" Status Deceased Death Killed by a duplicate of Pyat Pree 
"A Man Without Honor" Allegiance The Thirteen Portrayed by Unknown "And the Copper King offers me a single ship... on the condition that I lie with him for a night. Does he think I will whore myself for a boat?" ―Daenerys Targaryen[src] 

The Copper King is an unnamed and unidentified recurring background character in the second season. He is played by an unknown actor and debuts in "Garden of Bones." He is killed by the magic of Pyat Pree when Xaro Xhoan Daxos proclaims himself King of Qarth. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

He is a member of the Thirteen, the rulers of Qarth. Season 2Edit 

He receives Daenerys Targaryen outside the gates of the city with the rest of the Thirteen. They refuse to admit her without seeing her dragons. She is defiant and is eventually admitted under the protection of Xaro Xhoan Daxos. 

Daenerys visits him to obtain support for her campaign to take her father's throne. He offers Daenerys one ship on the condition that she have sex with him. He is refused. 

He's present at a session of the Thirteen in which Daenerys accuses the Spice King of stealing her dragons. He's murdered by one of the doubles of Pyat Pree along with the rest of the Qartheen merchant lords after the warlock reveals it was him who stole the dragons and declares Xaro Xhoan Daxos the King of Qarth. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis ReferencesEdit ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Copper_King?oldid=232608"