Cotter Pyke Season(s) 1 Mentioned in "Fire and Blood" Titles Commander Status Alive Origin Iron Islands Allegiance The Night's Watch Culture Ironborn 

Cotter Pyke is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. Cotter Pyke is an officer of the Night's Watch, and the commander of Eastwatch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Cotter Pyke is a senior member of the Night's Watch. He serves as commander of Eastwatch, the eastern-most castle on the Wall. He is a bastard, born on the Iron Islands. Season 1Edit 

Lord Commander Jeor Mormont tells Jon Snow that Cotter Pyke's rangers found four wights outside of Eastwatch and wisely burned their corpses. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Cotter Pyke is the bastard son of a tavern wench. He betrays his common origins by being plain, even rough-speaking, with a broken nose. Despite his origins, Cotter Pyke is also considered to be a highly effective and able commander, and stands high in the ranks of the Night's Watch. He holds a level of disdain for, and is essentially the opposite to, Ser Denys Mallister, the commander of The Shadow Tower, who is a highborn knight. 

In "A Dance with Dragons" Cotter Pyke, not Tormund, is given the assignment of bringing the Wildlings from Hardhome. He and his crew are in great danger, in view of his second report to Jon. Just as Jon arranges a rescue party, he is attacked by his own men. The commotion makes the people at Castle Black forget about Cotter Pyke's predicament. By the end of the novel, it is unknown what is the status of him and his men, if any of them is still alive. See alsoEdit Cotter Pyke on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Fire and Blood" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Cotter_Pyke?oldid=228398"