Craster's last son Season(s) 4 Appeared in "Oathkeeper" Status Alive Allegiance White Walkers Family {Craster} - father 
Sam - brother "A gift for the gods." ―Craster's wives[src] 

Craster's last son ​is an unnamed minor character in the fourth season. He first appears in "Oathkeeper". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

This baby is the last male offspring of the wildling Craster, killed by Karl Tanner of the Night's Watch during the mutiny in which the old wildling was killed. The baby is born months later, while Karl and several other mutinous black brothers are still occupying Craster's Keep. Season 4Edit 

The baby becomes a White Walker. After being told by Morag that the baby will be a sacrifice for "the gods", Karl orders Rast to leave the baby in the woods for the White Walkers to seize him. Some time after Rast abandons the baby in the Haunted Forest, a White Walker seizes him and takes him to the lair of White Walkers, deep in the Lands of Always Winter. After being left at an icy altar, one of the White Walkers' masters takes the boy and puts a finger to his face. The baby's eyes quickly turn the color of those of the White Walkers. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Craster's wives are convinced that the baby boys given by Craster to the Others are, in turn, transformed into new Others. However, no such event has ever been witnessed in the books so far. 

Craster's wives do say that they believe that the infant sons that Craster gave the Others as sacrifices were turned into new White Walkers - but it wasn't clear if this is what actually happens, or if it was just the wild suspicion of Craster's frightened, isolated wives. When Samwell is told to flee with Gilly and her newborn son, Gilly urges that if he doesn't "they" will come for him. When he asks who "they" are, another wife says: "The boy's brothers...Craster's sons. The white cold's rising out there, crow. I can feel it in my bones. These poor old bones don't lie. They'll be here soon, the sons." 

Confirmation of what exactly happens to Craster's sons has not occurred in the books yet. ​AppearanceEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children ReferencesEdit ↑ "Oathkeeper" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Craster%27s_last_son?oldid=205528"