Cynda Lannister Season(s) 2 Mentioned in "A Man Without Honor" Status Alive Allegiance House Lannister Family {Alton Lannister} - son "She the fat one?" ―Jaime Lannister to Alton Lannister[src] 

Cynda Lannister is an unseen character mentioned in the second season. Cynda is the mother of Ser Alton Lannister. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Cynda Lannister is a member of a lesser branch of House Lannister and the mother of Ser Alton Lannister. Season 2Edit 

While in the Starks' stockade, Ser Alton tells Jaime that his mother is Cynda Lannister. Jaime cannot remember her, and asks if she is the fat one. Ser Alton admits that she has got a little rounder with the years. Jaime responds that there is only one fat Lannister, and he would know it, if she was. Jaime uses the reminiscences to draw Alton closer to him. He then murders Alton to facilitate an escape attempt. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire books, there is no character named "Alton Lannister", nor that he has a mother named "Cynda Lannister". The character Cleos Frey has the role of being a captive of House Stark and delivering terms to House Lannister. Cleos Frey is the son of Ser Emmon Frey, Walder Frey's second son, and Genna Lannister, the only sister of Tywin Lannister. His name appears to have been changed so that TV viewers would not be confused that he is on the Lannisters' side, despite House Frey officially declaring for Robb Stark. 

While Alton does serve in the same role as Cleos Frey in the books, it is later made clear that he is not the son of Genna Lannister as he mentions his mother is Cynda Lannister, whom Jaime has difficulty remembering. Thus "Alton Lannister" isn't as important a familial relation as Cleos Frey is; he is not Lord Tywin's nephew and Jaime's first cousin the way Cleos is in the books. Similarly, "Cynda Lannister" does not correspond to Genna Lannister. ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Man Without Honor" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Cynda_Lannister?oldid=227996"