The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 For other characters who share the same name, see "Daemon". Daemon Sand Season(s) 4 First seen "The Mountain and the Viper" Titles Ser Also known as The Bastard of Godsgrace Status Alive Origin Godsgrace Allegiance House Allyrion 
House Martell Culture Dornishmen 

Ser Daemon Sand is a minor character in the fourth season. He is a knight, and serves as squire for Prince Oberyn Martell. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 4Edit 

Daemon squiring for Prince Oberyn. 

Ser Daemon squires for Prince Oberyn Martell during Tyrion Lannister's trial by combat, and coats his master's spear head with deadly manticore venom. He witnesses the Red Viper's death at the hands of Ser Gregor Clegane. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Daemon Sand, also known as "The Bastard of Godsgrace", is Ser Ryon Allyrion's natural born son. He serves Prince Oberyn Martell as squire, and received his knighthood from the Red Viper himself. There are also rumors that he is one of Oberyn's lovers, though this is seldom said to his face. 

Ser Daemon is close friends with Arianne Martell, daughter and heir of Prince Doran, and took her maidenhead when they were both fourteen. When Prince Doran learned of this he didn't seek to punish Daemon, but refused to allow him to marry his daughter. 

He is considered to be one of Dorne's finest swordsmen. 

House Allyrion belongs to the group known as "Salty Dornishmen", who live along the coasts of Dorne and the Greenblood river system. This group has the most Rhoynar blood of all Dornishmen and generally possess olive skin, dark hair, and dark eyes. Daemon's brief appearance in Season 4 of the TV series did not resemble this, but as it turns out, in the books he is not described as having classic "salty Dornish" features. Instead, he is said to have sky blue eyes and light sandy brown hair. Daemon is a bastard son, so the simple explanation may be that he takes after his non-Allyrion parent in looks, and this parent was either a "stony Dornishman" from the western mountains, or possibly from somewhere outside of Dorne entirely. See alsoEdit Daemon Sand on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Daemon_Sand?oldid=232540"