Daisy Season(s) 2 First seen "The North Remembers" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Status Uncertain Origin Haystack Hall, the Stormlands Allegiance Petyr Baelish Portrayed by Maisie Dee Ros: "We do things differently here, Daisy. This isn't some five-copper bawdy house in Hastings Hall." Daisy: "Haystack Hall." Ros: "Wherever you're from." — Ros giving Daisy a tour of the brothel.[src] 

Daisy is a recurring character in the second season. She is played by guest star Maisie Dee and debuts in the "The North Remembers." Daisy is a prostitute in the brothel owned by Lord Petyr Baelish. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Daisy is a prostitute originally from Haystack Hall, in the Stormlands. Season 2Edit 

She is a new prostitute in the brothel owned by Lord Petyr Baelish. She is learning about the brothel from Ros, impressed by the upmarket decor, and thinks that Armeca is beautiful. She is present when the infant Barra is killed by Lord Janos Slynt in front of her mother Mhaegen. 

Daisy is sleeping with Grand Maester Pycelle when he is arrested by Tyrion Lannister for espionage. Tyrion pays her for her troubles. Tyrion later hires Ros and Daisy as a present for his nephew King Joffrey Baratheon. They wait for him in his chamber. When he arrives Ros wishes him a happy name day and then reaches for his crotch. He flinches and then instructs Ros to touch Daisy. He asks if Ros can hit Daisy and she spanks her gently. Joffrey asks if Tyrion sent them and Ros says that Tyrion chose them himself. Joffrey takes off his belt and gives it to Ros to use. He forces Ros to hit Daisy hard enough to make her scream. He hands Ros a stag’s head sceptre and she protests that too much pain will spoil the pleasure. He loads his crossbow as Ros warns him that his uncle might find out. He tells Ros that he wants Tyrion to find out and orders her to take Daisy to Tyrion’s chambers to show him what has happened or she will also be beaten. He aims the crossbow at Ros and orders her to begin. It is unknown if Daisy survived the beating as she is never seen in the brothel again. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Behind the scenesEdit 

According to Masie Dee, who is a pornographic actress in real life, when she was initially cast the role was simply named "Nubile Whore" - which is what was posted on her trailer on set - though as her scenes in Season 2 developed the writers gave her the name "Daisy". In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no character of this name. When Tyrion arrests Grand Maester Pycelle, he is in bed with a maid, but she is never named. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "What is Dead May Never Die" ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ Masie Dee's blog (caution, NSFW). v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Daisy?oldid=229975"