The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Donnel Waynwood Season(s) 4 First seen "First of His Name" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Knight of the Gate 
Ser Status Alive Allegiance House Waynwood 
House Arryn Family Anya Waynwood - mother Portrayed by Alisdair Simpson "Who would pass the Bloody Gate?" ―Donnel Waynwood to Petyr Baelish[src] 

Donnel Waynwood is a recurring character in the fourth season. He is played by Alisdair Simpson and debuts in "First of His Name". Ser Donnel Waynwood is a knight of House Waynwood and serves House Arryn as the Knight of the Gate, commander of the Bloody Gate. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Ser Donnel is a son of Lady Anya Waynwood, the current head of House Waynwood. Season 4Edit 

Ser Donnel is at the Gate when Lord Petyr Baelish and Sansa Stark arrive. Littlefinger introduces Sansa as his niece, Alayne. Donnel believes him and lets them pass. 

When Sandor Clegane and Arya&nbsp;Stark&nbsp;reaches the Bloody Gate and Donnel&nbsp;orders them to stop, Sandor tells him who they are expecting ransom for reuniting Arya with her aunt&nbsp;Lysa Arryn. After Donnel&nbsp;explains that Lysa died three days ago, Sandor is left in shock while Arya bursts out in laughter, because of the irony. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Donnel Waynwood is described as being a stocky man of twenty, with a wide nose and thick brown hair. Donnel is the second of Lady Anya's three sons: Morton, Donnel, and Wallace. He&nbsp;serves at the Bloody Gate and leads the sortie that saves Catelyn Stark and her retinue from the Mountain clans at the Mountains of the Moon. After Ser Brynden Tully departs with his niece Catelyn, Donnel later replaces him as the new Knight of the Gate. 

Later at the Bloody Gate, Lady Anya introduces her grandson Ser Roland Waynwood, a muscular man about 25 years old, as well as her youngest son Wallace, who is identified as Roland's uncle. It isn't clear if Roland is Morton's son or Donnel's son. See alsoEdit Donnel Waynwood on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Waynwood Lord: Lady Anya Waynwood Heir: Seat: Lands: The Vale of Arryn Title(s): Current members: Donnel Waynwood Overlord: House Arryn Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Donnel_Waynwood?oldid=222628"