The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Donnel Hill Season(s) 4 First seen "The Watchers on the Wall" Appeared in 1 episodes (see below) Status Deceased Death Killed fighting Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg Allegiance The Night's Watch Religion Faith of the Seven Portrayed by Jack Roth "Mother save me, Father save me." ―Donnel Hill after seeing Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg[src] 

Donnel Hill​&nbsp;is a minor character in the&nbsp;fourth season. He is a member of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Donnel Hill is a bastard from the Westerlands. It is unknown which noble house he hailed from. ​Season 4Edit 

During the&nbsp;Battle of Castle Black, Hill takes part in defending the Wall against Mance Rayder's forces. When Castle Black's inner gate is threatened by the giant Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg, he accompanies Grenn, Cooper, and other black brothers to defend it. Although he initially wavers and considers fleeing upon seeing the Giant, he is convinced by Grenn to stay and fulfill his oath to the Night's Watch. They successfully kill the giant, but all of the black brothers are slain in the process. Their bodies are discovered by Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly after the battle. After the arrival of&nbsp;Stannis Baratheon and his forces, though not seen Donnel is among the numerous bodies of fallen black brothers burned in Castle Black's courtyard. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children ​In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels there is a steward of the Night's Watch named Donnel Hill, nicknamed "Sweet Donnel Hill". He claims to be a bastard of House Lannister. 

While the ranging force camps at the Fist of the First Men, Donnel is among the brothers who plot to murder Jeor Mormont, Sam and other prominent brothers to end the Great Ranging and desert. The sudden snowfall and the attack of the Others foils the plan. However, during the Mutiny at Craster's Keep Donnel&nbsp;sides with those who are loyal to Mormont. He and the other Loyalists make it to Castle Black long before Jon and Sam. He survives the Battle of Castle Black. 

Donnel is one of the four brothers who, at Jon's command, shoot arrows at Mance Rayder (actually, it is Lord of Bones in disguise) while he is executed by burning, in order to grant him a quick and painless death. See alsoEdit Donnel Hill on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Watchers on the Wall" ↑ "The Children" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Donnel_Hill?oldid=228376"