The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Drennan Season(s) 2 First seen "The Old Gods and the New" Last seen "A Man Without Honor" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Deceased Death Throat slit by Osha 
"The Old Gods and the New" Allegiance House Greyjoy Religion Drowned God Portrayed by David Coakley "And where are you going?" ―Drennan[src] 

Drennan is a recurring character in the second season. He is played by David Coakley and debuts in "The Ghost of Harrenhal." Drennan is an ironborn raider and part of the crew of the Sea Bitch. He was killed by Osha at Winterfell. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 2Edit 

Drennan is a crewman of the Sea Bitch, the ship Theon's father Balon Greyjoy gave him to raid the Stony Shore. Theon used an attack on Torrhen's Square as a diversion to drain forces from Winterfell. Drennan then takes part in the seizing of Winterfell by Theon Greyjoy. When the people of the castle are brought together in the courtyard for Bran Stark to officially surrender to Theon, Drennan is behind the kennelmaster Farlen. Farlen yells insults at Theon and Drennan hits him over the head with a club. 

Osha kills Drennan. 

Afterwards, he's assigned guard duty. During the night, Osha seduces Drennan and slits his throat, allowing Bran and Rickon Stark to escape Winterfell alongside Hodor, Summer and Shaggydog and Osha herself. 

Theon beats Lorren next to Drennan's dead body. 

Drennan's body is discovered and brought into the courtyard the following day. After angering Theon, Lorren gets beaten by the Prince of Winterfell&nbsp;next to Drennan's corpse. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Drennan is one of Theon's men. When Winterfell was taken, he and another man named Squint rape Palla, the daughter of Farlen. Theon orders them whipped to show the people of Winterfell that he will treat them fairly as their new lord. To ease the escape of Bran, Rickon, Hodor, Summer and Shaggydog, Osha comes to him with a plate of food. He is found slumped over a table, with his pants around his ankles and his throat cut with his own knife. See alsoEdit Drennan on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Greyjoy Lord: King Balon Greyjoy Heir: Princess Yara Greyjoy/Prince Theon Greyjoy (disputed) Seat: Pyke, Pyke Lands: The Iron Islands Title(s): King of the Iron Islands · Lord Reaper of Pyke · King of Salt and Rock · Son of the Sea Wind · Lord of the Iron Islands Ancestors: The Grey King · Vickon Greyjoy Current members: Aeron Greyjoy · Queen Alannys Greyjoy · Euron Greyjoy · Victarion Greyjoy Deceased members: Rodrik Greyjoy · Maron Greyjoy Household: {Dagmer} · {Lorren} · {Drennan} · {Gelmarr} · {Stygg} · {Aggar} · {Wex} · {Urzen} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Drennan?oldid=228032"