Durran Season(s) Complete Guide to Westeros, Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "The Age of Heroes (Complete Guide to Westeros)" 
"House Baratheon (Complete Guide to Westeros)" 
"The Stormlands (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles Storm King Also known as Durran Godsgrief Status Deceased Origin The Stormlands Allegiance House Durrandon Family {Elenei} - wife "Durran declared war on the gods and rebuilt his keep, which was also destroyed." ―Bran Stark[src] 

Durran, also known as Durran Godsgrief, is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is deceased when the series begins and has only appeared in the Complete Guide to Westeros and Histories &amp; Lore featurettes. 

Durran was a legendary First Men figure of the Age of Heroes and the first of the Storm Kings, who ruled the Stormlands until the Targaryen invasion of Westeros. According to legend, Durran won the love of Elenei, daughter of the sea god and the wind goddess, and took her as his wife. 

In rage, the gods sent a storm to destroy his keep over Shipbreaker Bay, killing his family and guests. Declaring war against them, Durran built new castles, each larger and more formidable than the previous one, though all were the destroyed by the divine storms. Finally, the seventh castle, which Durran built with the aid of either the Children of the Forest or a very young Bran the Builder, withstood the rage of the gods and became known as Storm's End, while Durran earned the nickname of "Durran's Godsgrief" and ruled as the first Storm King. 

Durran's dynasty, House Durrandon, perished with the death of Argilac Durrandon. However, House Baratheon descends from it through its female bloodline. Contents[show] Image GalleryEdit Durran, a mortal man, fell in love with Elenei, immortal daughter of gods Durran's first castle Durran's second castle Durran Godsgrief, with his Queen Elenei, before Storm's End, his seventh and final castle 
Add a photo to this gallery In the books Edit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire books Durran's story remains the same. See also Edit Durran on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Age of Heroes (Complete Guide to Westeros)" ↑ "The Stormlands (Histories &amp; Lore)" ↑ "House Baratheon (Complete Guide to Westeros)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Legendary Figures Arson Iceaxe · Artys Arryn · Azor Ahai &amp; Nissa Nissa · Bran the Builder · Durran Godsgrief &amp; Elenei 
 Garth Greenhand · First King · Florian &amp; Jonquil · The Grey King · The Griffin King · Joramun · Lann the Clever 
The Night's King &amp; the Night's Queen · The Rat Cook · The Prince That Was Promised 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon Lord: None Heir: None Seat: Storm's End Lands: The Stormlands Title(s): Lords Paramount of the Stormlands · Lord of Storm's End Ancestors: Durran Godsgrief · Argilac the Arrogant · Orys Baratheon · Argalia Baratheon · Monica Baratheon · Mychal Baratheon · Axel Baratheon · Lyonel Baratheon Deceased members: Renly I · Robert I · Steffon Baratheon · Cassana Baratheon · King Stannis I Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Durran?oldid=229979"