Dwarf 1 Season(s) 4, 5 First seen "The Lion and the Rose" Last seen "The House of Black and White" (severed head) Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Deceased Death Beheaded by two bounty hunters Allegiance For hire Portrayed by Raymond Griffiths "Let the war... begin!" ―The dwarf[src] 

A&nbsp;dwarf is an unnamed minor character in the fourth season. He is played by guest star Raymond Griffiths and&nbsp;only appears in "The Lion and the Rose". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

A dwarf, he makes a living by performing for other people's amusement. Season 4Edit 

Along with a group of four other dwarfs, he takes part in a mock "reenactment" of the War of the Five Kings at King Joffrey's wedding. He dresses as Joffrey Baratheon and rides a gold lion with antlers representing House Baratheon of King's Landing. He emerges victorious. 

Joffrey's uncle Tyrion Lannister, himself a dwarf, is deeply insulted by this spectacle. He instructs Podrick Payne to pay each of the dwarves 20 Gold Dragons when the play is over. Joffrey mockingly suggests that Tyrion fight the champion dwarf but Tyrion declines. He suggests that Joffrey fight instead but cautions his nephew to be careful as the champion dwarf is clearly mad with lust and it would be a tragedy for the king to lose his virtue hours before his wedding night, which draws a few chuckles from the guests. The champion dwarf is visibly insulted by Tyrion's statement as is Joffrey, who petulantly pours wine over his uncle's head in front of the entire congregation. Season 5Edit 

Cersei is presented with yet another dwarf's head, passed off as Tyrion's. 

After Tyrion murders his father Tywin and flees King's Landing, Queen Cersei puts a price out on him, offering a lordship to anyone who brings her his head. Many lowlifes start hunting random dwarfs in Westeros, and attempt to pass off their severed heads as Tyrion's. 

The dwarf who played Joffrey during the wedding is one of those unfortunate enough to be caught up in the violence. A pair of hunters present his severed head to Cersei, after crudely making a fresh cut across the left side of the face to try to make it look vaguely like Tyrion's disfiguring war wound. Cersei dismisses the hunters, but won't punish them because this would deter others from searching for Tyrion. Cersei tells them to dispose of the head but Qyburn leans in and politely asks if he can keep the head for himself as it might be "useful" in some of his twisted experiments, which Cersei happily obliges. AppearanceEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there are only two dwarfs jousting, dressed like Robb Stark and Stannis Baratheon. They ride live animals, a dog and a sow. Joffrey, however, is mentioned in two songs: Hamish the Harper's Lord Renly's Ride and another song by Galyeon of Cuy praising Joffrey for his bravery in the Battle of the Blackwater. 

In the novels, one of the two dwarfs from the mock joust at Joffrey's wedding - the one named Oppo - was indeed later killed by bounty hunters hoping to receive Cersei's promised reward of a lordship to the anyone who brought her Tyrion's head. In the TV version, Cersei is shown rejecting the head of this dwarf from the joust as fake - though in the novels, the scene actually depicted was one in which she rejects the head of a dwarf that Brienne of Tarth met on the road in the Riverlands who was devoted to the Faith of the Seven. That being said, in both the novels and TV series, Cersei mentions that she has been presented with numerous dwarf heads that men are attempting to pass off as Tyrion - so she probably also saw and rejected Oppo's head as well in the novels, just "off-screen". See alsoEdit Oppo on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Lion and the Rose" ↑ "The House of Black and White" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Dwarf_1?oldid=232266"