Eddard Stark Season(s) 1, 6 First seen "Winter is Coming" Last seen "Fire and Blood" 
"The Lion and the Rose" (Bran's vision) Appeared in 11 episodes (see below) Titles Lord of Winterfell 
Hand of the King 
Lord Paramount of the North 
Warden of the North 
Lord Regent (briefly, unacknowledged) 
Protector of the Realm (briefly, unacknowledged) Status Deceased Death Beheaded by Ser Ilyn Payne at the order of Joffrey Baratheon in King's Landing 
"Baelor" Origin Winterfell Allegiance House Stark Culture Northmen Religion Old Gods of the Forest Family {Rickard Stark} - father 
{Brandon Stark} - brother 
{Lyanna Stark} - sister 
Benjen Stark - brother 
{Catelyn Stark} - wife 
{Robb Stark} - son 
{Jon Snow} - bastard son 
Sansa Stark - daughter 
Arya Stark - daughter 
Bran Stark - son 
Rickon Stark - son 
{Lysa Arryn} - sister-in-law 
Robin Arryn - nephew-by-marriage 
Edmure Tully - brother-in-law 
{Hoster Tully} - father-in-law 
{Minisa Tully} - mother-in-law 
{Talisa Maegyr} - daughter-in-law 
Tyrion Lannister - son-in-law 
Ramsay Bolton -son-in-law 
 Portrayed by Sean Bean (Adult) 
Sebastian Croft (Young, flashback in Season 6) "The man who passes the sentence should swing the sword." ―Eddard Stark[src] 

Eddard Stark, popularly known as Ned, is a major character in the first season. He is played by starring cast member Sean Bean, and debuts in the series premiere. He will reappear in the sixth season, in a flashback, played by Sebastian Croft. Eddard is the head of House Stark, the Lord of Winterfell, Lord Paramount and Warden of the North, and Hand of the King to Robert I Baratheon. He was the father of Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran and Rickon by his wife, Catelyn Tully, and to Jon Snow, his bastard son by an unknown mother. He is a dedicated husband and father, a loyal friend and an honorable lord. 

The second son of Lord Rickard Stark, Eddard was not expected to inherit and was sent to be fostered at the Eyrie in the Vale. Raised by Lord Jon Arryn, Eddard became close friends with his fellow ward, Robert Baratheon, the Lord of Storm's End. When Eddard's sister, Lyanna, was abducted by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen and his father and older brother, Brandon, were executed by King Aerys II Targaryen when they asked for Lyanna's return, Eddard called the banners of the North in rebellion, assisted by Houses Baratheon and Arryn. His marriage to Catelyn Tully, his brother's betrothed, guaranteed the support of House Tully. After Rhaegar's forces were defeated at the Trident and the capital, King's Landing, was sacked by the armies of House Lannister, Eddard went to find his sister in Dorne but he arrived too late to save her. Robert became king and Eddard returned with his wife, his firstborn son, Robb, and his bastard, Jon. 

For seventeen years, Eddard remained at his seat of Winterfell, ruling the North in the name of King Robert. After the death of Jon Arryn, who had served as Hand of the King, Robert offered Eddard the position and he traveled to the capital with his two daughters to assist in the rule of the realm. In King's Landing, Eddard discovered that Jon Arryn had been murdered because he had discovered that Robert's children by Cersei Lannister were actually born of her incest with her twin brother, Ser Jaime Lannister. After King Robert's death during a hunt, Eddard tried to arrest Cersei and her children and place Robert's younger brother, Stannis Baratheon, on the throne as the lawful heir. However, Petyr Baelish's betrayal saw Eddard's arrest for treason. When he learned of his father's arrest, Robb raised the banners of the North to free him. In order to prevent the upcoming war and secure his daughters' safety, Eddard confessed to treason, but Joffrey, believed to be Robert's son and the new King, reneged on a promise of mercy and ordered his execution. 

Eddard's death led to the breakout of war between House Stark and House Lannister. In anger over their liege lord's execution, Eddard's bannermen rejected the authority of the Iron Throne and acclaimed his son, Robb, as King in the North. Contents[show] Biography Background 

Eddard Stark is the head of House Stark and Lord Paramount of the North. The North is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms, and House Stark is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Stark rules the region from their seat of Winterfell, and Eddard also holds the title Lord of Winterfell. In addition, he is the Warden of the North. 

Eddard is married to Lady Catelyn of House Tully. Though they barely knew one another when they wed, they formed a strong and loving marriage. They have five legitimate children: Robb, Sansa, Arya, Bran and Rickon. Eddard also has an illegitimate bastard son, Jon Snow, reportedly by a common serving girl named Wylla. Jon's presence at Winterfell is a source of friction between Eddard and his wife. Nevertheless, Eddard was close to all his children and was well-loved and respected by all of them. He seemed to have a soft spot for his youngest daughter, Arya. 

Eddard is the second son of Lord Rickard Stark. Lord Rickard served King Aerys II Targaryen as Warden of the North. Eddard's older brother Brandon was Rickard's heir. Eddard also has a younger sister Lyanna and a younger brother Benjen. Eddard is a stoic, dutiful, and honorable man and is considered to embody the values of the North. 

Ned's wedding to Catelyn Tully Eddard is a trusted, close friend and counselor of King Robert Baratheon. He supported Robert's play for the throne by acting as a general in several major battles. Eddard's sister Lyanna, who was betrothed to Robert, was kidnapped by Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, sparking the war. Brandon protested the kidnapping, but his attempt to bring Rhaegar to justice failed. Lord Rickard was summoned to court in King's Landing by Aerys, and both Brandon and Rickard were executed by the Mad King. Their deaths left Eddard to inherit Rickard's responsibilities, serving King Robert instead. Brandon had been betrothed to Catelyn, and Eddard also inherited his brother's bride. Lyanna died in Eddard's arms during the conflict. Despite his happy family life, Eddard still felt the losses of his family quite keenly, often visiting his sister's tomb to light a candle for her as his daughter, Sansa, remembered. 

Eddard's other younger sibling, Benjen, still lives and is a member of the Night's Watch, an institution of which Eddard is a keen supporter. He also appeared to have troubles keeping his bannermen in line as Stannis Baratheon remembered his brother, Robert, saying the Northmen were difficult to control, even with Eddard on his side. 

Eddard wields a Valyrian greatsword named Ice (an heirloom of House Stark) which he uses on ceremonial occasions. Season 1 

Eddard passes sentence on Will. 

Eddard Stark executes a deserter from the Night's Watch named Will. Will tries to warn Eddard about the return of the White Walkers, but Eddard dismisses him as a madman. Eddard's sons Robb, Bran, and Jon accompany him to the execution. Eddard makes a point of telling Bran that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword and take responsibility for his own decisions. 

On the way back to Winterfell, the party finds a dead stag and a dead female direwolf. The direwolf was survived by her litter of six pups. Eddard's first instinct is to kill them, but Jon argues that as the direwolf is the sigil of House Stark, this may be an omen. Eddard agrees to let his children look after them on the condition that they clean, raise, and feed them with no help from the servants. 

A raven bears news of the death of Jon Arryn, Eddard's childhood mentor, to Winterfell. The missive also states that King Robert and much of the royal court is on their way to the castle. Eddard realizes that Robert means to name him as Hand of the King to replace Jon. He ponders refusing, but when Robert arrives he makes it clear that he badly needs Eddard's help in King's Landing. He also sweetens the deal by offering to betrothe his son and heir Joffrey to Eddard's daughter Sansa. Eddard remains uncertain until a secret letter from Lysa Arryn, Catelyn's sister, implicates the Lannisters in the death of Jon Arryn. Eddard decides to accept to investigate both Jon's death and a potential plot against the king. He decides to bring both of his daughters to introduce them to the court. 

Bran is found comatose at the base of a disused tower following an apparent climbing accident. Eddard reluctantly decides to leave as planned, to his wife's distress. Eddard, Arya, Sansa, and the royal party head south to King's Landing. At their parting Eddard tells Jon that, though he does not have Eddard's name, he has his blood. He also promises to tell him about his mother the next time they meet. 

Eddard and his son Jon Snow. 

On the Kingsroad south to the capital, King Robert calls a halt to discuss troubling news from Essos. Robert's spies have learned of Daenerys Targaryen's marriage to Khal Drogo, whose khalasar is reported to number over one hundred thousand warriors. Eddard points out that the Dothraki cannot cross the Narrow Sea, as they have no ships, but Robert is concerned that the Seven Kingdoms will soon face another war. Robert also asks about&nbsp;Wylla, the mother of Jon Snow, but Eddard quickly deflects the line of questioning. 

Eddard and Arya at the Crossroads Inn. 

Eddard before he executes Sansa's direwolf, Lady. 

Joffrey is mauled by Arya's direwolf Nymeria after he attacks Arya. Arya then forces Nymeria to flee and hides in the woods. Arya is found and Eddard is brought before the king and instructed to punish Arya. Joffrey lies about the cause of the incident and Sansa supports him, enraging Arya. Queen Cersei insists that a direwolf must be punished and Robert orders that Sansa's direwolf, Lady, must be killed in Nymeria's place. Eddard attends to the matter himself, to Sansa's anger. 

On his arrival in King's Landing, Eddard is immediately summoned to a small council meeting and finds the capital immersed in political intrigue. Members of the king's small council are at the heart of these machinations: Petyr Baelish, the master of coin, known as Littlefinger; Varys, the master of whisperers; Pycelle, the Grand Maester; and Renly Baratheon, the master of laws and Robert's younger brother. Eddard learns that the crown is six million gold dragons in debt, with half of it owed to Lord Tywin Lannister. Robert has ordered a lavish tournament to celebrate Eddard's appointment regardless. While acclimating to the political maneuvering, Eddard also tries to repair the rift between Sansa and Arya, with mixed results. Sansa rejects his gifts, but Arya is delighted when he hires a swordmaster, Syrio Forel, to train her. 

Littlefinger tells Eddard that Catelyn has followed him to the city. Eddard is furious when Littlefinger brings him to a brothel, believing he is being made to look like a fool. Catelyn intervenes as Eddard attacks Littlefinger. She tells Eddard that she has traveled south to report an assassination attempt against Bran. The assassin was killed but was carrying a Valyrian steel knife. Littlefinger identifies the blade as one that he lost in a bet with Tyrion Lannister, and they conclude that the Lannisters were also behind Bran's original injuries. Eddard agrees to try to expose the truth, and Catelyn urges him to trust Littlefinger, her childhood friend. Eddard reluctantly agrees, though he finds Littlefinger obnoxious and dishonorable. 

Eddard's investigation reveals that Jon Arryn took an interest in Robert's numerous bastard children, including his son Gendry. He learns that Jon borrowed The Lineage and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms from Pycelle. Eddard reads the book but cannot determine why Jon wanted it. Eddard discovers that soon after Jon's death his squire, Hugh, was knighted. Eddard sends the captain of his guards, Jory Cassel, to investigate, but Hugh refuses to talk to Jory. Hugh is killed by Ser Gregor Clegane - a noted servant of Lord Tywin Lannister - in an apparent tourney mishap before Eddard can talk to him. As the tourney continues, Eddard discusses the death with Lord Commander Barristan Selmy of the Kingsguard, one of the most decorated and honorable knights in Westeros. They cannot ascertain if Hugh was killed deliberately. Eddard convinces King Robert not to fight in the tourney, bluntly calling him too fat. Robert reluctantly agrees. 

Yoren of the Night's Watch arrives in the city and tells Eddard that he witnessed Catelyn arresting Tyrion Lannister. This allows Eddard to claim that he ordered the arrest. Varys visits Eddard and warns him that there is a conspiracy, saying that Jon was poisoned and that King Robert may also be killed if Eddard cannot stop it. 

A rift is opened between Eddard and Robert when Eddard refuses to sanction the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen upon hearing she is pregnant with Khal Drogo's child. Eddard resigns as Hand and prepares to return to Winterfell. Littlefinger gives Eddard another lead, keeping him in the city. Eddard finds another of Robert's bastards, a baby girl named Barra in one of Littlefinger's brothels. As Eddard leaves the brothel, he is confronted by Ser Jaime Lannister over Tyrion's capture. Jaime kills Jory and Eddard's other bodyguards and engages Eddard in single combat. A Lannister guardsman interferes and stabs Eddard in the leg, angering Jaime. He tells Eddard that he wants his brother back and leaves. 

An injured Eddard wakes up in the Red Keep to be confronted by Cersei and Robert about the fight with Jaime and the abduction of Tyrion by Catelyn. Cersei is enraged that Eddard will not be punished. Robert tells Eddard that he is like a brother, and he refuses to accept his resignation as Hand. Robert commands Eddard to take back the badge and to make peace with the Lannisters, as he will not risk another civil war. Eddard reluctantly agrees. Robert goes on a hunting expedition, and Eddard receives word that Ser Gregor Clegane is leading a series of pillaging raids on the Riverlands, possibly at Lord Tywin Lannister's command. Despite his order to make peace with the Lannisters, Eddard commands Lord Beric Dondarrion to carry out an order of execution on Gregor, whom he strips of all rank and title. Eddard also orders that Tywin present himself in the capital to explain his vassal's actions under penalty of being branded a traitor. 

Despite being restored to the king's favor, Eddard worries that the situation may yet come to war. He orders Sansa and Arya to return to Winterfell. A chance comment by Sansa that golden-haired Joffrey is a lion, not a stag, and is "nothing like" his old drunk of a father, makes Eddard realize the truth. He consults The Lineage book and sees that in every match between a Baratheon and a member of another house, the Baratheon black hair always dominates. He realizes with shock that this means that Joffrey and the other royal children are not Robert's and have no claim to the Iron Throne. 

Eddard confronts Cersei. 

Eddard confronts Cersei and warns her that he knows that her three children are the product of her incestuous relationship with Jaime. He warns her to flee into exile before Robert returns from his hunt, when he will tell Robert the truth. Robert is mortally wounded while on the hunt. Wishing him a peaceful death, Eddard withholds his discovery. Robert names Eddard Protector of the Realm, to rule until Joffrey comes of age. Eddard transcribes the command as referring to Robert's rightful heir, not mentioning Joffrey by name. 

Eddard writes to Robert's brother and true heir, Stannis, urging him to take the crown. He dispatches his guardsman Tomard to deliver the letter. He tells Littlefinger the truth of the matter, but rejects Littlefinger's suggestion that they take advantage of the situation to increase their own power. Reluctantly, Littlefinger agrees to recruit the City Watch to Eddard's cause. Renly also offers Eddard the use of soldiers in securing Cersei and her children, but Eddard refuses to dishonor Robert's last few hours by spilling blood and frightening children. Renly flees the castle fearing that the Lannisters will show no such respect. 

Littlefinger turns on Eddard Stark. 

Robert dies and Joffrey takes the throne. Cersei tears up the letter proclaiming Eddard as Protector of the Realm. Eddard tells Joffrey that he has no right to the Iron Throne and commands the City Watch to take him and his mother into custody. Instead, the City Watch turns on Eddard's men and kills them. Littlefinger holds a knife to Eddard's throat, telling him that he shouldn't have trusted him. 

Eddard in the black cells of the Red Keep. 

Eddard is incarcerated in the black cells under the Red Keep. He is visited by Varys who is disguised as a gaoler. Varys is bemused by Eddard telling Cersei that he knew about the parentage of her children and adds that his mercy is what killed Robert. He also informs Ned says that Catelyn no longer has Tyrion in custody. Eddard asks if he will be killed and Varys replies, "Not today." Varys returns to urge Eddard to confess to treason in exchange for exile in the Night's Watch. Eddard refuses until Varys elucidates that the Lannisters still have Sansa as a hostage - Arya has escaped. Varys adds that the Lannisters need him alive so they can bargain with his son Robb, who is leading an army to confront them in the Riverlands. 

Eddard is executed by Ser Ilyn Payne in "Baelor". 

Eddard is taken to the front steps of the&nbsp;Great Sept of Baelor. He spots Arya crouching beside the statue of Baelor the Blessed&nbsp;and signals Yoren, who is also present amidst the gathered crowd. Having relented to Varys' request, Eddard&nbsp;confesses that he intended to seize the throne for himself and&nbsp;recognizes&nbsp;Joffrey as the rightful king. Joffrey, however, ignores his mother's counsel that Eddard be exiled and orders his immediate execution. Before Ser Ilyn Payne swings the Lord of Winterfell's own sword Ice, Eddard notices that Yoren has taken Arya. Sansa&nbsp;watches as Payne decapitates Eddard before the shocked Cersei and council can intervene, as the baying crowd cheers. Before&nbsp;he dies, Eddard mutters a few last unheard words. Yoren is able to smuggle Arya out of the city. 

Eddard's head on a spike 

Eddard's head is placed on a spike above the Traitor's Walk in the Red Keep. Joffrey torments Sansa by forcing her to look upon it as well as the other slain members of her household. She overcomes her revulsion and is able to maintain her composure, preventing his satisfaction at seeing her upset. Eddard's death launches the Seven Kingdoms into the devastating War of the Five Kings, with the North and the Riverlands seceding from the authority of the Iron Throne and Robb Stark proclaimed as the King in the North. Season 2 The return of his father's remains for proper burial is one of the demands that his son Robb Stark, the new King in the North, tells Alton Lannister to deliver to Queen Cersei Lannister in King's Landing. Cersei scoffs at&nbsp; 

The Silent Sisters deliver a box containing Ned Stark's bones. Robb's declaration of independence when his demands are read to the Small Council, but Tyrion insists that they should at least return the bones of Robb's father. 

When Catelyn Stark and Petyr Baelish both approach the army camp of Renly Baratheon in the Stormlands for negotiations, Baelish delivers Ned's bones to Catelyn, in a box escorted by a pair of Silent Sisters. The delivery was a gesture of goodwill by Tyrion, in the hope that this would smooth the way to achieving the liberation of his brother Jaime from Stark captivity. Catelyn mourns over Ned's remains. Season 3 

Bran Stark has a dream at one point where he hears his father's voice, repeating his previous words of encouragement that Bran will become a better archer with practice, and scolding Jon and Robb for laughing at him. 

In a conversation with Lady Olenna Tyrell, Varys&nbsp;states that he admired Lord Eddard, and Lady Olenna retorts that Lord Stark had many admirers, none of which came to his rescue, not knowing that Varys had tried and failed to have Ned spared. Varys replies that he&nbsp;regrets that he was unable to save Ned from his execution, and that he wishes to help Sansa&nbsp;as a means of restitution for this failure. 

Theon Greyjoy, after reflecting on his betrayal of the Starks and his abandonment by his father, comes to the conclusion that Ned Stark was the closest thing to a father he ever had, realizing that his "real father died in King's Landing". The realization that he had betrayed Ned's memory and the only people who ever truly treated him like family moves Theon to tears. 

During her time with the Brotherhood Without Banners, Arya stark learns from Thoros of Myr that they were indirectly created by her father to bring justice to Gregor Clegane. She also learns that their leader, Beric Dondarrion, greatly admired Ned, and regrets the necessity of holding Arya for ransom. 

When Jaime reveals to Brienne of Tarth his true motives behind killing the Mad King, Brienne asks him why he didn't tell Ned Stark of his motives. He angrily rants that the "honorable" Ned Stark would never have believed him. Jaime believes that Ned judged him guilty the moment he laid eyes on him. 

Shortly before they are massacred at the wedding of Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey, Robb and his wife Talisa&nbsp;consider naming their unborn child after Ned if it is a boy. Catelyn also reveals to Roose Bolton that at their wedding Ned forbade the traditional bedding, fearing it would be bad luck if he punched a man on their wedding night. Season 4 

When Bran is on the other side of the Wall, he wargs into a Heart tree&nbsp;and sees a vision of his father sitting in the Godswood of Winterfell with his sword Ice, and in the black cells of the Red Keep. 

When Tyrion Lannister is given the opportunity to take the black if he admits to assassinating Joffrey in his trial and then pleads for mercy, he rightly points out that Ned Stark was promised the same and was later executed nonetheless. 

When Sansa reveals her identity to the lords of the Vale, Lord Yohn Royce&nbsp;mentions that Ned was a good friend of his, and that they used to hunt together. Season 5 

As she prepares to maim Sansa, Myranda quips that Ramsay Bolton needs her alive because her father Ned was the Warden of the North, and with all of Ned's other children either dead or believed dead, Sansa is essentially Ned's heir. However, Theon begins to atone for the role he played in the downfall of House Stark by killing Myranda before she can harm Sansa and helping her escape the clutches of the deranged Ramsay. [[Relationships]] 

See:&nbsp;Eddard and Catelyn Stark Appearances Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood * 

* only appears as head and body; credited Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words * Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa 

* Voice only in Bran's vision (archive voice footage from "Winter is Coming", no credit) Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose * Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children 

* Bran's vision (archive footage, no credit, no lines) Image gallery Promotional wallpaper for the first season featuring Eddard. Catelyn and Eddard at Winterfell in "Winter is Coming". Promotional image of Eddard in the first season. Eddard and his greatsword Ice in "Winter is Coming". The Starks find the direwolf pups in "Winter is Coming". The Starks await the arrival of the king in "Winter is Coming". Eddard talking to his brother Benjen in Winterfell's Great Hall in "Winter is Coming". Eddard assaults Petyr Baelish for bringing him to a brothel in "Lord Snow". Eddard chairs a meeting of the small council in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things". Baelish advises Eddard on politics in King's Landing in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things". Eddard discusses the death of Jon Arryn with Ser Barristan Selmy in "The Wolf and the Lion". Jaime Lannister attacks Eddard in King's Landing in "The Wolf and the Lion". Eddard is wounded by a Lannister man-at-arms in "The Wolf and the Lion". Eddard reads about the lineage of House Baratheon in "You Win or You Die". Eddard Stark costume on display at Wondercon 2011. Promotional poster for Game of Thrones. 
Add a photo to this gallery Family tree &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Rickard Stark 
Deceased &nbsp; Unknown 
Lady Stark 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Brandon Stark 
Deceased &nbsp; Catelyn Stark 
née Tully 
Deceased &nbsp; Eddard Stark 
Deceased &nbsp; "Wylla" 
Deceased &nbsp; Lyanna Stark 
Deceased &nbsp; Benjen Stark 
Night's Watch &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Robb Stark 
Deceased &nbsp; Talisa Stark 
née Maegyr 
Deceased &nbsp; Tyrion Lannister &nbsp; Sansa Stark &nbsp; Ramsay Bolton &nbsp; Arya Stark &nbsp; Bran Stark &nbsp; Rickon Stark &nbsp; Jon Snow 
Night's Watch &nbsp; Ygritte 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Quotes Spoken by Eddard "I don't fight in tournaments because when I fight a man for real, I don't want him to know what I can do." ―Eddard to Ser Jaime Lannister[src] Eddard Stark: "I followed you into war. Twice. Without doubts, without second thoughts. But I will not follow you now. The Robert I grew up with didn't tremble at the shadow of an unborn child." Robert Baratheon: "She dies." Eddard Stark: "I will have no part in it." Robert Baratheon: "You're the King's Hand, Lord Stark. You'll do as I command, or I'll find me a Hand who will!" Eddard Stark: "And good luck to him. I thought you were a better man." — Eddard refuses to take part in killing Daenerys Targaryen and her unborn child.[src] "I grew up with soldiers. I learned how to die a long time ago." ―Eddard to Varys[src] "You think my life is such a precious thing to me, that I would trade my honor for a few more years... Of what?" ―Eddard to Varys[src] "I am Eddard Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Hand of the King. I come before you to confess my treason, in the sight of Gods and men. I betrayed the faith of my King, and the trust of my friend, Robert. I swore to defend and protect his children, but before his blood was cold I plotted to murder his son, and seize the throne for myself. Let the High Septon and Baelor the Blessed bear witness to what I say. Joffrey Baratheon is the one true heir to the Iron Throne. By the grace of all the Gods, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm." ―Eddard's last words.[src] Spoken about Eddard "You were right about Eddard Stark. If he were alive, we could've used him to broker a peace with Winterfell and Riverrun, which would have given us more time to deal with Robert's brothers, but now? Madness! Madness and stupidity!" ―Tywin Lannister to Tyrion Lannister[src] "You think the honorable Ned Stark wanted to hear my side? He judged me guilty the moment he set eyes on me. By what right does the wolf judge the lion? By what right!?" ―Ser Jaime Lannister to Brienne of Tarth[src] Behind the scenes 

Despite the death of Eddard Stark being a key event in the novels, the decision to do so in the TV series adaptation generated considerable media interest, as it's considered rare for a lead character to be killed off so quickly in American television. Reaction ranged from outrage to shock. In an interview with the periodical Entertainment Weekly, actor Sean Bean wryly suggested viewers complain to George R.R. Martin about it. In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Eddard Stark is in his mid-thirties when the story begins. He has a reputation for chivalry, honor, honesty, and command, but can also sometimes be remote. He has a frosty relationship with Ser Jaime Lannister, believing that the latter should have been, at the very least, stripped of his rank in the Kingsguard for his murder of the former king. A stoic yet fair and caring man, Eddard puts a great deal of importance on his family. 

King Robert traveled to Winterfell to ask Eddard to replace Jon Arryn as Hand of the King, the monarch's closest adviser. Ned wanted to decline, but went south at his wife's urging to investigate Arryn's death. He eventually discovered that Cersei and Jaime were lovers and Cersei's three children were Jaime's, not Robert's. Ned warned Cersei to flee the city, but instead she remained while Robert was mortally wounded on a boar hunt. When Ned attempted to expose the truth of Joffrey's parentage, his men were executed and he was captured due to the treachery of Littlefinger. He was executed on the order of King Joffrey. 

Eddard is also an accomplished battlefield commander, leading armies in Robert's Rebellion and the Greyjoy Rebellion. 

Unlike the show, Ned's bones are sent to Riverrun as part of a plot orchestrated by Tyrion Lannister to free his brother Jaime. Afterward a retinue of Stark men are sent to deliver them to Winterfell. However, with Moat Cailin held by the ironborn, the whereabouts of the retinue and their cargo remains unknown. See also Eddard Stark on A Wiki of Ice and Fire References ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark entry ↑ 2.0 2.1 HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark - Catelyn Stark entry ↑ 3.0 3.1 HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark - Eddard Stark entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark - Rickard Stark entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark - Brandon Stark entry ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark - Lyanna Stark entry ↑ Sons of the Harpy ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark - Benjen Stark entry ↑ The House of Black and White ↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 "Winter is Coming" ↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 "The Kingsroad" ↑ 12.0 12.1 "Lord Snow" ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ 14.0 14.1 14.2 "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ 15.0 15.1 "A Golden Crown" ↑ 16.0 16.1 16.2 "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ 18.0 18.1 "Baelor" ↑ 19.0 19.1 "Fire and Blood" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ Dark Wings, Dark Words ↑ And Now His Watch is Ended ↑ And Now His Watch is Ended ↑ Kissed by Fire ↑ Kissed by Fire ↑ "The Rains of Castamere" ↑ The Lion and the Rose ↑ The Laws of Gods and Men ↑ The Mountain and the Viper ↑ "Mother's Mercy" ↑ Bonnie Says: How Dare ‘Game Of Thrones’ Kill OFF Ned Stark, The Heart &amp; Soul Of The Series!, Hollywood Life, June 14, 2011; accessed May 14, 2012 ↑ Producers react to Games of Thrones Shocker: They Killed off Who?!?, TV Fanatic, June 13, 2011; accessed May 13, 2012 ↑ Sean Bean talks 'Game of Thrones' Episode 9, Entertainment Weekly (insidetv.ew.com), June 12, 2011; accessed May 14, 2012 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Stark Lord: Prince Bran Stark Heir: Prince Rickon Stark Seat: Winterfell (formerly) Lands: The North Title(s): King in the North · Lord Paramount of the North · Lord of Winterfell Ancestors: Brandon the Builder · Brandon the Breaker · Dorren Stark · Rodrik Stark · Karlon Stark · Osric Stark · Torrhen Stark · Cregan Stark Current members: Sansa Stark · Arya Stark · Benjen Stark Deceased members: Rickard Stark · Brandon Stark · Lyanna Stark · Eddard Stark · King Robb Stark · Talisa Stark · Catelyn Stark · Jon Snow Household: {Ser Rodrik Cassel} · {Maester Luwin} · {Jory Cassel} · {Vayon Poole} · {Septa Mordane} · Jeyne Poole · Osha · Hodor · Farlen · {Old Nan} · Mikken · Varly · Heward · Wyl · Tomard · Tommy · Jacks v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Small Council Hand of the King Current: 

Vacant Former: 

Lord Jon Arryn · Lord Eddard Stark · Tyrion Lannister · Lord Tywin Lannister Lord Commander of the Kingsguard Current: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Former: 

Ser Barristan Selmy Grand Maester 

Pycelle Master of Coin Current: 

Lord Mace Tyrell Former: 

Lord Petyr Baelish · Tyrion Lannister Master of Whisperers Current: 

Qyburn Former: 

Varys Master of Laws Current: 

Vacant Former: 

Lord Renly Baratheon Master of Ships Current: 

Lord Mace Tyrell Former: 

Lord Stannis Baratheon Other members Current: 

Vacant Former: 

Lord Janos Slynt · Prince Oberyn Martell · "Master of War" sv:Eddard Stark Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Eddard_Stark?oldid=233086"