The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Eglantine Season(s) 2 First seen "The North Remembers" Last seen "The Old Gods and the New" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance The Faith of the Seven 
House Baratheon of King's Landing Portrayed by Unknown 

 
 Eglantine is a recurring background character in the second season. She is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in "The North Remembers." Eglantine is the septa of Princess Myrcella Baratheon. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Eglantine is a septa of the Faith of the Seven. She serves at the Red Keep in King's Landing as governess and companion to Princess Myrcella Baratheon. Season 2Edit 

Eglantine is among the royal entourage for a tourney to celebrate King Joffrey Baratheon's nameday. 

Eglantine watches over Princess Myrcella as she plays blind man's buff with two courtiers. 

Eglantine accompanies Myrcella on her journey. 

Eglatine accompanies Princess Myrcella, now a ward of House Martell, on her journey from King's Landing as they travel to Sunspear as part of the betrothal arranged by Princess Myrcella's uncle Tyrion Lannister of Princess Myrcella to Prince Trystane Martell. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Image GalleryEdit In "The North Remembers" 
(above Joffrey's head) In "The Ghost of Harrenhal"Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Septa Eglantine is a loyal servant of the royal family and Princess Myrcella Baratheon. She accompanies Myrcella as part of her retinue when she is sent to Dorne as part of the marriage alliance arranged by Tyrion Lannister with House Martell. See alsoEdit Eglantine on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of King's Landing Lord: King Tommen I Heir: Seat: Red Keep, King's Landing Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): King of the Andals and the First Men · Lord of the Seven Kingdoms · Protector of the Realm Current members: Queen Mother Cersei Lannister · Queen Margaery Tyrell Deceased members: King Robert I · King Joffrey I · Princess Myrcella Baratheon Household: Lord Mace Tyrell · Grand Maester Pycelle · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Boros Blount · Ser Balon Swann · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Ilyn Payne · Lord Gyles Rosby · Ser Aron Santagar · Qyburn · Septa Eglantine v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Martell Lord: Prince Doran Martell Heir: Seat: Sunspear Lands: Dorne Title(s): Prince of Dorne · Lord of Sunspear Ancestors: Princess Nymeria · Prince Mors Martell · Prince Maron Martell · Princess Daenerys Martell · Queen Myriah Martell Current members: Prince Trystane Martell · Ellaria Sand · Obara Sand · Nymeria Sand · Tyene Sand · Sarella Sand · Elia Sand · Obella Sand · Dorea Sand · Loreza Sand Deceased members: Prince Lewyn Martell · Princess Elia Martell · Prince Oberyn Martell Household: Areo Hotah Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Eglantine?oldid=232606"