The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Emmon Cuy Season(s) 2 Appeared in "The Ghost of Harrenhal" Titles Ser Status Deceased Death Killed by Brienne of Tarth 
"The Ghost of Harrenhal" Origin Sun House Allegiance House Cuy 
Renly I's Kingsguard Portrayed by Unknown 

Emmon Cuy is a member of Renly Baratheon's Kingsguard. He is a background character in the second season, played by an unidentified extra and only appears in the "The Ghost of Harrenhal". Ser Emmon is killed by Brienne of Tarth after he blames and attacks her in the wake of Renly's assassination. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Ser Emmon is a knight of House Cuy, an ancient noble family of the Reach. Season 2Edit 

King Renly Baratheon's camp is a hive of activity as his troops prepare for the coming battle with the forces of King Stannis Baratheon in darkness. The camp is beset by strong winds. Catelyn Stark meets with King Renly in his command tent. Ser Emmon and his sworn brother Ser Robar Royce are outside while Brienne of Tarth stands watch inside the tent. Hearing Brienne scream the guards rush into the tent with swords in hand. They see Brienne kneeling over Renly’s corpse and assume that she is responsible. The two knights threaten her life. Catelyn tries to intervene but they push her aside. Brienne fights both of them off, killing them. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Emmon Cuy is a member of the Rainbow Guard as "Emmon the Yellow" and hails from House Cuy of Sunflower Hall, a noble house from the Reach. Unlike in the episode, he, Robar Royce, and two guards enter Renly's tent just after his King's assassination. Cuy blames Brienne for the death and attacks her. One of the guards tries to burn her using a flaming torch, but her cloak is too soaked with blood to burn. Brienne cuts the guard's hand, fights Cuy and the remaining guard, and apparently kills the latter. Catelyn Stark convinces Robar that Brienne is innocent and he fights off the men-at-arms that follow Cuy, while Catelyn uses an iron brazier to knock Emmon Cuy unconscious, then she and Brienne escape. Ser Emmon and Ser Robar are later killed by Lord Commander Ser Loras Tyrell in a fit of rage, because of their failure to protect King Renly and their allowing Brienne to escape. As he lay dying, Ser Emmon swears it was Brienne that killed Renly, and thus the rumors of this follow her. 

When Loras was convinced of Brienne's innocence, he was filled with deep remorse for killing Cuy and Royce. See alsoEdit Emmon Cuy on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (major spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Renly I's Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Loras Tyrell Members: 

Brienne of Tarth · Ser Emmon Cuy · Ser Robar Royce Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Emmon_Cuy?oldid=232603"