Erik Season(s) Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series First seen "Iron From Ice" Last seen "Sons of Winter" or "The Ice Dragon" (player-determined) Appeared in 1 or 2 or 4 episodes Titles Steward (player-determined) Status Determinant Death Stabbed by Harys 
"The Ice Dragon" (player-determined) Allegiance House Forrester 
Night’s Watch Culture Northmen Portrayed by Yuri Lowenthal Ethan: "We are in this together." Erik: "You say that, but it won't be you who's starving come winter." — Ethan Forrester and Erik[src] 

Erik was a soldier for House Forrester who was caught stealing some weapons in Ironrath, he is brought before Ethan Forrester to be judged. Contents[show] BiographyEdit "Iron From Ice"Edit 

Erik was caught stealing weapons by Ser Royland Degore and brought to Ethan to be judged, Ethan has three options: he can remove three fingers the same way his father punished thieves, sent to join the Night's Watch or he can be freed and given food. If it's the last choice Erik is grateful but Ethan's advisers worry that it will lead to more like him. If one of the former two is chosen Erik is horrified but Ethan's advisers are satisfied. "The Lost Lords"Edit 

If Erik was sent to the Wall then Gared Tuttle can find and speak to him there where Erik is extremely bitter about his situation and very angry with the Forresters, he wishes he could have had his fingers removed instead as he would have at least been able to go home afterwards. "The Sword in the Darkness"Edit 

If Erik was sent to the Wall then he is briefly seen in this episode where he is assigned to be a steward. "Sons of Winter"Edit 

If Erik was sent to the Wall in Iron From Ice, he is briefly seen while Britt's body is burned. "The Ice Dragon"Edit 

If Erik was shown mercy by Ethan, he appears as a Forrester man-at-arms and accompanies Asher or Rodrik to meet Ludd Whitehill at the gates of Ironrath. 

Later, if Bowen was left behind, Asher was saved, and if Elissa Forrester &amp; Ludd Whitehill succumbed to the poison, then Erik will stab Harys on the back in a manner of protecting Asher but is fatally stabbed by Harys. AppearancesEdit Telltale Game Series appearances Iron From Ice The Lost Lords The Sword in the Darkness Sons of Winter A Nest of Vipers The Ice Dragon 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Forrester Lord: Lord Rodrik Forrester or Lord Asher Forrester Heir: Ryon Forrester Seat: Ironrath (formerly) Lands: The Wolfswood, The North Title(s): Lord of Ironrath (formerly) Ancestors: Gerhard Forrester · Cedric Forrester· Thorren Forrester Current members: Elsera Snow · Josera Snow · Talia Forrester · Ryon Forrester · Mira Forrester (player-determined) Deceased members: Gregor Forrester · Elissa Forrester · Rodrik Forrester (player-determined) · Asher Forrester (player-determined) · Mira Forrester (player-determined) · Ethan Forrester Household: Royland Degore · {Ortengryn} · Gared Tuttle · Duncan Tuttle · Malcolm Branfield · Beskha · {Norren} · Bowen · Erik · {Thermund} · {Gared's father} · {Gared's sister} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Erik?oldid=227637"