Farlen Season(s) 2 First seen "The Old Gods and the New" Last seen "A Man Without Honor" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Uncertain Allegiance House Stark Family Palla - daughter Portrayed by Peter Ballance Theon Greyjoy: "You all know me." Farlen: "Aye, we know you for a steaming sack of shit." — Farlen to Theon Greyjoy, who has just taken Winterfell.[src] 

Farlen is a recurring character in the second season. He is played by Peter Ballance and debuts in "The Old Gods and the New." Farlen is the kennelmaster at Winterfell. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Farlen is the kennelmaster at Winterfell. He has a daughter, Palla. Season 2Edit 

Winterfell gathers to witness Bran surrendering to Theon 

After Winterfell is seized by ironborn raiders led by Theon Greyjoy, Farlen is among the members of the Stark household forcibly assembled at the castle's yard to witness Prince Bran's official yielding to Theon. Farlen refuses to serve Theon, and insists he's a servant of House Stark. One of the ironborn raiders, Drennan, beats him over the head with a club. He is helped up off the ground by his daughter Palla. They are both present when Theon Greyjoy assembles the people after the escape of Bran and Rickon Stark and unveils two charred corpses and hangs them up on either side of the castle gates. 

Following the Sack of Winterfell, Farlen's fate is unknown. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis QuotesEdit Theon Greyjoy: "He claims the North as well by right of conquest. You are all his subjects." Farlen: "Bugger that. I serve the Starks. If you think you can hold the North with this lot..." Drennan: "Shut up!" — Farlen defiantly proclaims his loyalty to the Starks, prompting Drennan to strike him into submission.[src] In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Farlen is also the loyal kennelmaster of Winterfell. It was not him but Mikken the blacksmith who talked defiantly to Theon Greyjoy, and was killed for that. Farlen was falsely accused by Theon of killing three of the ironborn (who were actually killed by Ramsay Snow at Theon's command), and was beheaded by Theon. In the TV series, he was replaced by Ser Rodrik Cassel at the execution scene. See alsoEdit Farlen on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ 1.0 1.1 "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Stark Lord: Prince Bran Stark Heir: Prince Rickon Stark Seat: Winterfell (formerly) Lands: The North Title(s): King in the North · Lord Paramount of the North · Lord of Winterfell Ancestors: Brandon the Builder · Brandon the Breaker · Dorren Stark · Rodrik Stark · Karlon Stark · Osric Stark · Torrhen Stark · Cregan Stark Current members: Sansa Stark · Arya Stark · Benjen Stark Deceased members: Rickard Stark · Brandon Stark · Lyanna Stark · Eddard Stark · King Robb Stark · Talisa Stark · Catelyn Stark · Jon Snow Household: {Ser Rodrik Cassel} · {Maester Luwin} · {Jory Cassel} · {Vayon Poole} · {Septa Mordane} · Jeyne Poole · Osha · Hodor · Farlen · {Old Nan} · Mikken · Varly · Heward · Wyl · Tomard · Tommy · Jacks Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Farlen?oldid=229685"