Frey Soldier 1 Season(s) 3 Appeared in "Mhysa" Status Deceased Death Stabbed to death by Arya Stark 
"Mhysa" Allegiance House Frey Portrayed by Ciaran O'Grady "Does 'fuck off' mean something different where you're from?" ―The soldier to Arya Stark.[src] 

The Frey soldier&nbsp;is a character who appears in the third season finale, "Mhysa". He is played by Ciaran O'Grady. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

The Frey soldier partook in the Red Wedding.  Season 3Edit 

The soldier is first seen at a campfire with fellow Frey soldiers, mocking the death of Catelyn Stark and spreading stories on how he attached Grey Wind's head to Robb Stark's body. While one of the other men doesn't immediately believe this, saying that many of the Frey men would claim to have done the act, the soldier insists that with help from Malcolm and Talbot, he sewed Grey Wind's head onto Robb's body, mentioning how difficult it was to do so. 

Arya Stark, who passes the Freys along with Sandor Clegane, jumps off the horse and walks up to the Freys, engaging in a conversation. She asks for a meal, whereas one of the soldiers simply orders her to "fuck off". Arya states that she is hungry, and the Frey soldier asks her what part of "fuck off" she doesn't understand. Arya claims to have money, showing the coin of Braavos&nbsp;that Jaqen H'ghar gave her.&nbsp; 

The Frey soldier seems interested, reaching his hand out for the coin. Arya, however, drops the latter by 'accident' and apologizes. The soldier calls her a "little shit"&nbsp;and leans down to retrieve the coin. Before even grasping it, Arya pulls the man off of the wooden log and repeatedly stabs him in the neck. As the other Frey soldiers join the battle, Clegane intervenes and protects the Stark girl, eliminating each and every one of them as the stabbed Frey soldier bleeds profusely. 

After the battle is over, Sandor walks over to Arya, who is coldly staring down at the corpse of the Frey soldier she stabbed. He asks her if this was the first man she'd ever killed. After she confirms that it was the "first man", he asks where she retrieved the knife. She reveals that she pocketed it off of Clegane himself. Mildly annoyed, he grabs his knife back from her, and declares that the next time she plans on doing something like this, she should tell him first. She retrieves Jaqen's coin and mumbles the words Valar Morghulis. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the whole scene does not occur in the books. However, the trick with the coin Arya uses on the soldier is based on the way she tricks and kills a guard when she flees Harrenhal after the castle is seize by the Northern army led by Roose Bolton. Also, Arya stabs the Tickler multiple times, but that happens later in the book. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Rains of Castamere" ↑ "Mhysa" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Frey_soldier_1?oldid=232485"