Frey Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "House Frey (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles Lord Status Deceased Allegiance House Frey Family Walder Frey - distant descendant "House Frey gained its title through cunning. Centuries ago, its founder looked at a map and noticed how the Trident spears the Neck, cutting off the North from the South. He realized that a river of gold would flow to the man who owned the right bridge across the water." ―Catelyn Stark[src] 

Frey&nbsp;is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is deceased when the events of the series begin. He is not expected to appear in the series. He was the founder of House Frey. BiographyEdit 

The founder of House Frey lived about six hundred years before the War of the Five Kings, three hundred years before the Targaryen Conquest. 

The&nbsp;founder of House Frey&nbsp;looked at a map and noticed that the Trident speared the Neck, cutting off the North from the South. He realized that a river of gold would flow to the man who owned the right bridge across the water. He set in motion the building of this bridge, but did not see it to completion as this took three generations. Eventually, the Frey family obtained their much desired lordship, and the castle-bridge their founder began construction on as finished as The Twins. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, his story is the same. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "House Frey (Histories &amp; Lore)" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Frey Lord: Lord Walder Frey Heir: Ser Stevron Frey Seat: The Twins · Riverrun Lands: Riverlands Title(s): Lord of the Crossing · Lord of Riverrun · Lord Paramount of the Trident Ancestors: Frey Current members: Arwaya Frey · Derwa Frey · Freya Frey · Janeya Frey · Lothar Frey · Marianne Frey · Merry Frey · Neyela Frey · Olyvar Frey · Roslin Frey · Sarra Frey · Serra Frey · Shirei Frey · Walda Frey · "Fat Walda" Frey · Waldra Frey · Waldron Frey · Ryger Rivers · Black Walder Rivers Deceased members: Joyeuse Erenford Household: Malcolm · Talbot Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Frey_(founder)?oldid=231372"