Galbart Glover Season(s) 1 First seen "The Pointy End" Last seen "Fire and Blood" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Master of Deepwood Motte Status Alive Origin Deepwood Motte Allegiance House Stark 
House Glover Portrayed by Mark Coney "Renly is not right!" ―Galbart Glover on fealty to Renly Baratheon[src] 

Galbart Glover is a recurring background character in the first season. He is played uncredited by Mark Coney and debuts in "The Pointy End." Galbart Glover is the Master of Deepwood Motte and a loyal bannerman to House Stark. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Galbart Glover is the Master of Deepwood Motte and the head of House Glover, a vassal family to House Stark of Winterfell. He is known as a loyal and reliable bannerman. 

Gregor Forrester famously arm-wrestled Galbart Glover for the privilege of becoming the man's squire; Glover later joked that he'd gladly lose the match all over again. Season 1Edit 

Galbart Glover dines with Robb Stark and his bannermen as they assemble their armies to march south to confront the Lannisters and free Lord Eddard Stark. Jon Umber objects to Glover being placed in command of the vanguard in the order of battle, to the point of threatening to leave and take his troops with him. Robb Stark's direwolf, Grey Wind, rips off two of the Greatjon's fingers in response. The Greatjon laughs off the incident and accepts his place in the army. Later, Galbart Glover joins Robb's strategy meetings as the army marches onward. 

Following the victorious Battle of the Whispering Wood, Robb holds a meeting with his generals as they decide whether to accept Renly or Stannis Baratheon as king. Galbart angrily says that Renly is not the true king, agreeing with Robb's assertion that Renly is the younger brother. A few minutes later he joins the Greatjon and other lords in declaring Robb as the King in the North. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Galbart Glover is the head of House Glover of Deepwood Motte. Their lands are deep in the Wolfswood to the north-west of Winterfell and extending along the coast of the Bay of Ice, south of Bear Island. Galbart is noted as a good lord and a loyal vassal. Being childless, his heir is his younger brother Robett. 

Before going to the Red Wedding, Robb commands Galbart and Maege Mormont to take men by longship and sail through the marshes of the Neck to seek out Howland Reed, thus they do not attend the Red Wedding. He gives them letters for the Northern lords, explaining the letters contain false orders, in case they are captured by the Ironborn. While it is not explicitly written, it is presumed Robb also gave Maege and Galbart the royal decree he issued, by which he legitimized Jon Snow and named him his successor. 

It is unknown whether Maege and Galbart reached their destination, and if they actually have Robb's decree in possession. See alsoEdit Galbart Glover on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Fire and Blood" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Glover Lord: Master Galbart Glover Heir: Seat: Deepwood Motte Lands: The North Title(s): Master of Deepwood Motte Overlord: House Stark Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Galbart_Glover?oldid=232537"