Gared Season(s) 1 Appeared in "Winter is Coming" Titles Ranger Status Deceased Death Decapitated by a White Walker 
"Winter is Coming" Origin Castle Black Allegiance The Night's Watch Portrayed by Dermot Keaney "Our orders were to track the wildlings. We tracked them. They won't trouble us no more." ―Gared[src] 

Gared is a minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Dermot Keaney and only appears in the series premiere. In the unaired pilot he was played by Richard Ridings, but the role was recast. Gared is a ranger in the Night's Watch. He is killed by a White Walker while on a ranging north of the Wall. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Gared is a ranger in the Night's Watch. Season 1Edit 

Rangers Gared, Ser Waymar Royce and Will departing Castle Black on a ranging beyond the Wall. 

Gared is a ranger of the Night's Watch. He is an older, more experienced ranger and a capable soldier. He is beheaded by the White Walkers while on a scouting mission beyond the Wall in the Haunted Forest with Will and Ser Waymar Royce. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Gared is past fifty and has lost both ears, his little finger and three toes to frostbite. He has been on the Wall for over forty years. Some of Gared and Will's roles have been switched around from the books; in the book it is Gared who escapes and is executed for desertion. See alsoEdit Gared on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Winter is Coming" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Gared?oldid=228367"