Greizhen mo Ullhor Season(s) 3 First seen "Walk of Punishment" Last seen "And Now His Watch is Ended" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Good Master Status Deceased Origin Astapor Allegiance Good Masters Culture Ghiscari Portrayed by Clifford Barry "If they fail in the battlefield, they will shame Astapor." ―Greizhen mo Ullhor on selling half-trained Unsullied[src] 

Greizhen mo Ullhor is a character in the third season. He is portrayed by Clifford Barry. Greizhen mo Ullhor is a slave-trader in the city of Astapor, on the coast of Slaver's Bay. Contents[show] Biography Edit BackgroundEdit 

Greizen mo Ullhor is of the Good Masters, the ruling elite of the city. He is an immensely wealthy slaver who has grown rich from the training and trading of the Unsullied warrior-eunuchs. Season 3Edit 

Greizhen accompanies fellow Good Master Kraznys mo Nakloz and a third Good Master for negotiations with Daenerys Targaryen and is amused by Kraznys' comments about her. When Daenerys states that she wants to buy not just the fully-trained Unsullied but the slaves in training as well, Greizhen opposes, concerned that if these half-trained warriors fail on the battlefield it would shame Astapor. 

Greizhen and Kraznys about to deliver the Unsullied 

Greizhen is present at one of Astapor's plazas for the conclusion of the transaction with Daenerys: the Unsullied and the half-trained boys in exchange for her dragon Drogon. He is killed when Daenerys orders to Unsullied to kill all the Good Masters, slave-drivers and soldiers in the city, sparing only the children, and liberate all the slaves. Appearances Edit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, when Daenerys meets with the Good Masters, one of them, Grazdan mo Ullhor, is hesitant to sell the half-trained Unsullied because if defeated Astapor and the Good Masters would be shamed. The name seems to have been changed because Grazdan is a common name in Slaver's Bay. See alsoEdit Grazdan mo Ullhor on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Greizhen_mo_Ullhor?oldid=209507"