The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Gyles Rosby Season(s) 1 First seen "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Last seen "Fire and Blood" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Titles Lord of Rosby Status Alive Origin Rosby Allegiance House Rosby 
House Baratheon of King's Landing "Lord Gyles." ―Sansa Stark greets Gyles Rosby[src]Gyles Rosby is a recurring background character in the first season. He was played by an unidentified extra and debuts in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things." He is the Lord of Rosby and the head of House Rosby, a noble house of the Crownlands, who is constantly present at the royal court in the Red Keep. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

Lord Gyles attends the Tourney of the Hand and is seated next to Septa Mordane for the first day of the jousts. 

Lord Gyles is present at the session in which Janos Slynt is created Lord Slynt and given the castle of Harrenhal and later Ser Barristan Selmy is dismissed from the Kingsguard. When Sansa Stark appears to ask for mercy for her father, Lord Gyles is greeted by the young lady, though he doesn't answer. 

Lord Gyles is also present at court when the troubadour Marillion is forced to perform a limerick in which he ridiculed the late King Robert and Queen Cersei. Alongside the rest of the courtiers, Lord Gyles claps after King Joffrey begins to clap sarcastically. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things * The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End * Baelor Fire and Blood * 

* - uncredited appearance In the booksEdit 

In the Song of Ice and Fire novels, Gyles Rosby is the head of House Rosby, a noble house that rules over an eponymous town in the Crownlands. He's noted for being sickly and constantly coughing. 

Lord Gyles is at many major events inclduing the Tourney on King Joffrey's Nameday, riot of King's Landing, Sansa Stark and Tyrion Lannister's wedding, the Battle of the Blackwater, the procession greeting Prince Oberyn Martell and Tywin Lannister's funeral. Cersei appointed him Master of Coin after Tyrion is put on trial for Joffrey's murder. Cersei considers him adequate in the position, but hounding over the crown's debt problems by the Iron Bank of Braavos' envoy exasperates his sickness and he perishes at the Red Keep. Grand Maester Pycelle protests that he did all he could, but an irate and paranoid Cersei accuses him of conspiring with Margaery Tyrell to kill Lord Gyles so a Tyrell can replace him. She orders Pycelle to have all Lord Gyles’s lands and wealth go to Tommen rather than his ward. Cersei selects Ser Harys Swyft as the new Master of Coin. 

According to the semi-canonical A Song of Ice and Fire Roleplaying Campaign Guide: A Game of Thrones Edition from Green Ronin Publishing Lord Gyles is the father of Lord Walder Frey's sixth wife Bethany Rosby and grandfather of Robb Stark's former squire Olyvar Frey and Lord Edmure Tully's wife Roslin Frey. See alsoEdit Gyles Rosby on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (major spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Fire and Blood" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Gyles_Rosby?oldid=232633"