The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Haggo Season(s) 1 First seen "Winter is Coming" Last seen "Baelor" Appeared in 4 episodes Titles Bloodrider Status Deceased Death Killed while trying to stop Mirri Maz Duur from performing blood magic on Drogo Origin Dothraki sea Allegiance Khal Drogo Religion Great Stallion 

Haggo is a recurring background character in the first season. He is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in the series premiere. Haggo is a bloodrider to Khal Drogo. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Haggo is a Dothraki bloodrider in the service of Khal Drogo. He is one of Drogo's closest allies and a stalwart warrior who favors the Arakh. Unlike Cohollo and Qotho, Haggo wears a leather vest as protection. Season 1Edit 

Haggo, alongside Qotho and Cohollo, accompanies Khal Drogo to view his bride, Daenerys Targaryen. 

Haggo is present at the feast in which a drunken Viserys threatens Daenerys and her unborn child. He doesn't take part when Drogo orders Qotho and Cohollo to restrain him while Drogo pours molten gold over his head, killing him. 

Following the raid of a Lhazareen village in Lhazar, Mago&nbsp;defies Drogo. Haggo, along with his fellow bloodriders, steps forward to defend&nbsp;Drogo's honor, only for the Khal to take matters in his own hands.. 

Drogo's wound festers and he becomes seriously ill. He falls from his horse in front of the Khalasar, a sign of great weakness. While Daenerys and then Cohollo kneel to the sides of the khal to check on him, Haggo remains mounted alongside Qotho. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Haggo is another of Drogo's bloodriders. During the wedding of Daenerys and Drogo, Haggo gives them a large leather whip with a silver handle. When the three bloodriders attempt to stop the Mirri Maz Duur's blood magic ritual to heal Drogo, Haggo is killed by Rakharo and Jhogo. See alsoEdit Haggo on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Winter is Coming" ↑ "A Golden Crown" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Haggo?oldid=232604"