Harkon Umber Season(s) 1 Mentioned in "A Golden Crown" Titles Lord Status Deceased Death Killed in a bear hunt Origin Last Hearth Allegiance House Umber Culture Northmen Family Morag Umber - grandmother 
Hothor Umber - father 
Amarylis Umber - mother 
Lucan Umber - brother 
Gareth Umber - brother 
Mycah Umber - brother 
Joseth Umber - brother 
Regan Karstark - sister 
Corin Umber - sister "Harkon Umber: First of His Name, born to Lord Hothor Umber and Lady Amarylis Umber in the 183rd year after Aegon's Landing at the Last Hearth. Blue of eye, brown of hair, and fair complected. Died in his fourteenth year of wounds sustained in a bear hunt." ―Ned Stark[src] 

Harkon Umber is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is not expected to appear in the series, being long dead by the time it starts. He is one of the earliest recorded members of House Umber, and an ancient ancestor of the Greatjon. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Harkon Umber is an early member of House Umber. He was the first born son of Lord Hothor Umber and his wife Lady Amarylis Umber. He was tragically killed in a bear hunt at the age of fourteen, leaving no heirs behind Season 1Edit 

He has an entry in The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms, which is read by Ned Stark. In the booksEdit 

Harkon Umber is mentioned only in the TV adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire and has no corresponding counterpart in the books. ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Golden Crown" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Umber Lord: Lord Greatjon Umber Heir: Smalljon Umber Seat: Last Hearth Lands: The North Title(s): Lord of Last Hearth Ancestors: Morag Umber · Hothor Umber · Amarylis Umber · Harkon Umber · Mycah Umber · Lucan Umber · Gareth Umber · Joseth Umber · Regan Umber · Corin Umber · Brandon Umber · Kear Umber · Finn Umber · Emilia Umber · Morgana Umber · Maynard Umber · Cedric Umber Overlord: House Bolton Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Harkon_Umber?oldid=227782"