Harlen Tyrell Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "House Tyrell (Histories &amp; Lore)" 
"The Reach (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles Lord Paramount of the Reach 
Lord of Highgarden 
Warden of the South 
Steward of Highgarden (pre-Conquest) Status Deceased Allegiance House Tyrell 
House Gardener Family {Luthor Tyrell} - descendant 
Mace Tyrell - descendant 
Loras Tyrell - descendant 
Margaery Tyrell - descendant "In a day, the Reach had lost its King, its ruling house and most of its army. Thankfully for everyone, my ancestor Harlen Tyrell had better sense. Until the Maesters sorted out the entail among Mern’s cousins, Harlen the steward was acting Lord of Highgarden. To ensure peace and life in the Reach he would yield the castle to Aegon. The other castles and families would then follow, as they had since the Dawn Age." ―Margaery Tyrell[src] 

Harlen Tyrell is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is not expected to appear, being long dead by the time it begins. 

Harlen was the steward of Highgarden during the reign of King Mern IX of the Reach. After the death of his king in the Field of Fire, Harlen surrendered Highgarden to Aegon the Conqueror. Afterward, Aegon elevated Harlen to Lord Paramount of the Reach and Warden of the South and House Tyrell to the status of a Great House. 

According to&nbsp;Olenna Tyrell, Harlen was like most Tyrell men and grew up banging steel too loudly for thought to penetrate, like his descendants Luthor, Mace, and Loras. &nbsp;She also implies that it was Harlen's wife who came up with the idea to surrender to Aegon and convinced Harlen to go along with it. In the books Edit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Harlen Tyrell's story is the same. See alsoEdit Harlen Tyrell on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide entry on Highgarden ↑ "House Tyrell (Histories &amp; Lore)" ↑ "The Reach (Histories &amp; Lore)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Tyrell Lord: Lord Mace Tyrell Heir: Ser Loras Tyrell Seat: Highgarden Lands: The Reach Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Reach · Lord of Highgarden · Warden of the South Ancestors: Garth Gardener · Harlen Tyrell · Lyonel Tyrell Current members: Olenna Tyrell · Alerie Tyrell · Margaery Tyrell · Tyrell lady Deceased members: Luthor Tyrell Household: Mira Forrester · Sera Durwell Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Harlen_Tyrell?oldid=227905"