The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Harys Swyft Season(s) 1 Appeared in "Fire and Blood" Titles Knight of Cornfield Status Alive Allegiance House Lannister 
House Swyft Family Dorna Swyft - daughter 
Ser Kevan Lannister - son-in-law 
Lancel Lannister - grandson 
{Martyn Lannister} - grandson 
{Willem Lannister} - grandson Portrayed by Unknown 

Harys Swyft is a background character in the first season. He is played by an unidentified extra and appears in "Fire and Blood." Ser Harys Swyft is a bannerman of House Lannister. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Ser Harys Swyft is the Knight of Cornfield and the head of House Swyft, a knightly house of the Westerlands. He's the father of Dorna Swyft, the wife of Ser Kevan Lannister Season 1Edit 

Ser Harys is present for a strategy meeting assembled by Lord Tywin Lannister following the defeat and capture of Ser Jaime Lannister in the Battle of the Whispering Wood. Also present are Tyrion Lannister, Ser Kevan Lannister, Lord Leo Lefford, Ser Addam Marbrand, and another bannerman, as well as Tywin's servants. Ser Harys remains quiet while the other bannermen discuss their next move. When Tywin grows exasperated and dismisses the council, Ser Harys departs along with everyone present, except for Tyrion, whom Tywin orders to stay. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood GalleryEdit Ser Harys in a Lannister council 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit 

The episode doesn't identify any of the bannermen present in the episode and their identities are conjectures based on lines spoken, age of the actor, costume and the overall blocking of the scene, all of them compared to the books. The only two unaccounted bannermen from the books are Ser Harys and Ser Flement Brax. As the latter is a younger character, second son of Lord Andros Brax, it is safe to assume the unidentified bannerman sitting next to Ser Kevan is meant to stand in for Harys Swyft In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Harys Swyft is present at the council following Jaime's capture and is the one who considers suing for peace. His lines are given to both Kevan Lannister and Leo Lefford. 

Tyrion Lannister dismisses Ser Harys as a shameless lickspittle whose only achievement is marrying off his daughter to Kevan Lannister. 

Cersei shares her brother's low opinion of Ser Harys, and once remarked that he should have adopted a worm as his personal sigil, as she considered a chicken (the emblematic animal of House Swyft) to be too brave a creature for him. 

Harys is with Tywin's army when they take&nbsp;Harrenhal. During their time there he manages to alienate the cooks, who spit in his food. His squire is killed in an argument with the&nbsp;Brave Companions&nbsp;over the supposed death of Lord&nbsp;Beric Dondarrion.&nbsp;Arya watches him kiss&nbsp;Vargo Hoat&nbsp;under Tywin's orders to make up and put the conflict behind them. 

During the&nbsp;Battle of the Blackwater, Harys is trapped beneath his horse after it falls on him, but is rescued by one of his men-at-arms. 

After Tywin's death, Cersei Lannister appoints Ser Harys as her puppet Hand of the King, instead of leaving the position vacant as in the show. Later, he is demoted to the position of Master of Coin and sent away to Braavos to negotiate the Crown's debt with the Iron Bank, a role taken by Mace Tyrell in the show. He is accompanied by several Lannister guards, one of them is Rafford (in the show he is replaced by Meryn Trant). See alsoEdit Harys Swyft on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Fire and Blood" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Swyft Lord: Ser Harys Swyft Heir: Seat: Cornfield Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Knight of Cornfield Current members: Dorna Swyft Overlord: House Lannister Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Harys_Swyft?oldid=232596"