Hugh Season(s) 1 First seen "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Last seen "The Wolf and the Lion" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Ser Also known as Ser Hugh of the Vale Status Deceased Death Impaled in the throat during a tournament by Ser Gregor Clegane 
"Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Origin The Vale of Arryn Allegiance House Arryn Portrayed by Jefferson Hall "Ah, a knight. They strut around like roosters down here. Even the ones who have never seen an arrow coming their way." ―Eddard Stark on Hugh's lack of manners[src] 

Hugh, called Ser Hugh of the Vale, is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by guest star Jefferson Hall and debuts in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things." Ser Hugh is a freshly made knight. He is killed by a splintered lance while jousting with Ser Gregor Clegane. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Hugh served as Lord Jon Arryn's squire for four years before Jon Arryn's death. After Arryn's death, Hugh was knighted for his loyal service by King Robert Baratheon. When Lady Lysa Arryn returned to the Eyrie with her son, Ser Hugh elected to remain in King's Landing in the King's service. Season 1Edit 

Lord Eddard Stark sends Jory Cassel to quiz Ser Hugh about Jon Arryn's death. Ser Hugh refuses to talk to Jory since he isn't a knight. Ser Hugh takes part in the tournament to celebrate Eddard's arrival and is killed by a splintered lance during a joust with Ser Gregor Clegane. 

Ser Hugh of the Vale being prepared for transport home to be buried. 

Lord Commander Barristan Selmy stands the knight's vigil for Ser Hugh overnight. Eddard ponders how Hugh could afford arms and armor so soon after being knighted, leading him to suspect that Hugh was involved in Jon Arryn's death. Varys later agrees that this is the most likely explanation, and that the Lannisters ordered him killed to prevent him talking (Ser Gregor is in the Lannister's service). AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion * A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood 

* Only appears as a corpse. QuotesEdit Petyr Baelish: "Do you know Ser Hugh of the Vale? Not surprising. Until recently he was only a squire – Jon Arryn's squire. He was knighted almost immediately after his master's untimely death." Eddard Stark: "Knighted for what?" — Eddard Stark's unanswered question.[src] In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Hugh is a reasonably effective warrior but is newly-proud and slightly drunk on his achievement of becoming a knight. 

Lord Stark met Ser Barristan at a cart transporting Ser Hugh's remains after the Silent Sisters had dressed him. Ser Barristan explains that he did stand vigil alone, but Ser Hugh apparently has a mother in the Vale and the remains are being sent to her. Ser Hugh's armor is new since he had it made especially for the tournament and has not been completely paid for, but Lord Stark will deal with the armorer himself and insists to the Silent Sister accompanying the cart that Ser Hugh's mother receive his armor since he knows it will mean something to her. 

When Grand Maester Pycelle is being accused by Tyrion Lannister of fatally poisoning Jon Arryn, Pycelle denies it while accusing Ser Hugh of doing it and that Varys&nbsp;and Queen Cersei will concur with Pycelle about Ser Hugh's guilt. 

Upon being knighted, Ser Hugh's sigil is a blue field bordered in crescent moons. See alsoEdit Hugh on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Arryn Lord: Robin Arryn Heir: Seat: The Eyrie Lands: The Vale of Arryn Title(s): Lord of the Eyrie · Lord Paramount of the Vale · Warden of the East Ancestors: Artys Arryn · Sharra Arryn · Ronnel Arryn Deceased members: Jasper Arryn · Jon Arryn · Alys Arryn · Ronnel Arryn · Lysa Arryn Household: {Ser Vardis Egen} · {Ser Hugh of the Vale} · Mord · Petyr Baelish Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Hugh?oldid=210268"