Innkeeper Season(s) 4 Appeared in "Two Swords" Status Alive Family Unnamed daughter Portrayed by Martin Walsh Innkeeper: "Please. She's a good girl." Polliver: "Shut your mouth and pour us more ale, and we may not take her with us when we're done with her!" — The innkeeper pleads Polliver not to let his men harm his daughter[src] An&nbsp;​innkeeper&nbsp;​is&nbsp;a minor character in the&nbsp;fourth season. He is played by Martin Walsh and only appears in "Two Swords". Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 4Edit 

When Arya Stark and Sandor Clegane arrive at his inn, the innkeeper is begging Polliver to stop his men from raping his daughter. Polliver tells him to shut up and pour them more ale, and they may not take her with them when they are done with her. The innkeeper reluctantly pours them more ale. He and his daughter narrowly escape the battle between the Hound, Polliver and his men. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Sandor warns the innkeeper that Polliver and the Tickler - who is still alive at this point, though Arya kills him in the ensuing fight - will kill him instead of paying for their drinks. This causes the innkeeper and the other people to leave the room. 

When Brienne encounters three of the Brave Companions (Timeon, Pyg and Shagwell), they tell her that Rorge killed the innkeeper after he told them about the bloody brawl in the inn. 

This innkeeper's story is more similar to a story Arya hears Chiswyck, one of the Mountain's men, telling at Harrenhal. He recalls that after the Tourney of the Hand Ser Gregor Clegane and his men gang raped Layna, the daughter of the keeper of an inn on the Goldroad. Chiswyck estimates her to have been eighteen at the time of the rape, but Rafford corrects him by stating that she was only thirteen. The men find this hilarious, which angers Arya and influences her to name Chiswyck as the first to be killed by Jaqen H'ghar. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Two Swords" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Innkeeper?oldid=210277"