Innkeeper's daughter Season(s) 4 Appeared in "Two Swords" Status Alive Family Unnamed father Portrayed by Gabrielle Dempsey Innkeeper: "Please. She's a good girl." Polliver: "Shut your mouth and pour us more ale, and we may not take her with us when we're done with her." — The innkeeper pleads Polliver not to let his men harm his daughter[src] An&nbsp;​innkeeper's daughter&nbsp;​is&nbsp;a minor character in the&nbsp;fourth season. She is played by Gabrielle Dempsey and only appears in "Two Swords". Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 4Edit 

When Arya Stark and Sandor Clegane arrive at an inn, the innkeeper is begging Polliver to stop his men from raping his daughter. Polliver tells him to shut up and pour them more ale, or they may take her with them when they are done with her. She escapes upstairs when the fighting breaks out between the Hound and the Lannister soldiers. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no direct parallel to this character. This girl's story is more similar to a story Arya hears Chiswyck, one of the Mountain's men, telling at Harrenhal. He recalls that after the Tourney of the Hand Ser Gregor Clegane and his men gang raped Layna, the daughter of the keeper of an inn on the Goldroad. Layna resisted but she had no chance against the Mountain and his men. When the girl's brother tried to intervene, he was killed by Rafford. Chiswyck estimates her to have been eighteen at the time of the rape, but Rafford corrects him by stating that she was only thirteen. The men find this hilarious, which angers Arya and influences her to name Chiswyck as the first to be killed by Jaqen H'ghar. 

When Arya and the Hound enter the Inn at the Crossroads, they encounter Polliver, the Tickler and a squire. Polliver sits with a girl in his lap, but she does not resist; no one else touches her; and there is no mentioning she is related to the innkeeper. Polliver shoves her away and stands to talk with the Hound. When the situation gets tense and it is clear that a brawl is imminent, the girl and the other locals leave the inn. See alsoEdit Layna on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Two Swords" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Innkeeper%27s_daughter?oldid=209600"