Jack Season(s) 2 Appeared in "A Man Without Honor" Status Deceased Death Killed by Dagmer 
"A Man Without Honor" Allegiance House Stark Family {Billy} - adoptive brother 
 {Winterfell shepherd} - adoptive father Portrayed by Unknown 

Jack is a background character in the second season. He is played by an unidentified extra and only appears in "A Man Without Honor." Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 2Edit 

When a shepherd reports being unable to tend to his flock with his three sons fighting in the south to Bran Stark as he holds court, Bran assigns him two orphan boys from the Winterstown named Billy and Jack. Winterfell is later seized by Theon Greyjoy but Bran and Rickon escape along with Osha, Hodor, Summer, and Shaggydog. They pass close by to the shepherd's farm. Theon tracks them there and brutally questions the shepherd who denies having seen them but Dagmer finds some walnut shells, which confirms their suspicions that they were there. Theon later returns to Winterfell with the charred corpses of two boys, claiming them to be the Stark princes and prompting Maester Luwin to wail in horror. 

A few days later, however, Luwin spots Osha sneaking into the catacombs. Having accompanied Theon and his fellow ironborn occupiers up to the point when they reached the shepherd's farm, Luwin quickly deduces that the corpses, which are still kept on display, must in fact be Jack and Billy. When he meets with Osha later on in the catacombs, he urges her not to tell Bran and Rickon and she readily agrees, but Bran overhears them anyway. Season 3Edit 

Following the Sack of Winterfell, Theon is held prisoner at the Dreadfort and brutally tortured by a group of men led by Ramsay Snow, who initially presents himself to his prisoner as an ironborn emissary sent by his sister. As Ramsay fumbles around with keys at a locked gate under the pretense of helping Theon escape, Theon confesses to his "savior" of having Dagmer kill two orphans and passing them off as Bran and Rickon. Season 4Edit 

Theon, who is mockingly renamed "Reek" by his captor, is forced to confess this yet again to Ramsay's father Roose Bolton upon his return to the Dreadfort after murdering Robb Stark and being named Lord Paramount of the North. Season 5Edit 

When Sansa Stark returns to Winterfell to be wed to Ramsay at the behest of Petyr Baelish, Ramsay initially forces Theon to keep up the charade and apologize to Sansa for murdering her brothers. Eventually, however, an irate Sansa forces Theon to finally confess to her as well that the corpses he presented at Winterfell were not in fact Bran and Rickon; they were "two farm boys." AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis QuotesEdit Bran Stark: "Wait, I know that farm. I sent those two Winterfell orphans there." Rickon Stark: "Jack and Billy! They'll give us some food." Bran Stark: "We can't risk it. If Theon tracks us here, he'll torture them until he finds out where we are." Rickon Stark: "Billy climbs a tree better than anyone." — A Man Without Honor Osha: "Who was that out there...hung from the gates?" Luwin: "Must have been the farmer's boys." Osha: "He killed them and burned them....and passed them off as the little lords?" Luwin: "Shh, shh, shh. They mustn't know. Bran would blame himself." Osha: "They'll never hear it from me. The little lads have suffered enough." — Osha and Luwin discuss the fate of Jack and Billy.[src] Theon Greyjoy: "I paid the iron price for Winterfell. I murdered those boys." Ramsay Snow: "The Stark boys?" Theon Greyjoy: "Never found them. Just some poor orphans living with a farmer. I let Dagmer slit their throats and I let him burn the bodies... so I could keep Winterfell... and make my father proud." — Theon Greyjoy confesses his crime to Ramsay Snow.[src] Ramsay Snow: "Reek, did you murder the Stark boys?" Theon Greyjoy: "No, my lord, just two farm boys." Ramsay Snow: "And crisped them so no one would know." Theon Greyjoy: "Yes, my lord." — Theon reveals the truth to Ramsay's father, Roose Bolton.[src] Sansa Stark: "Tell me why Bran and Rickon should be gone while you still breath the air! Tell me to my face, Theon! TELL ME THAT THEY WEREN'T YOUR BROTHERS!" Theon Greyjoy: "They weren't Bran and Rickon! [Pause] I couldn't find them. It was two farm boys. I killed them and burned them so no one would know." — Theon confesses to Sansa Stark.[src] In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Bran and Rickon do not go to the farm, they only go to the woods, then backtrack to the castle. The wolves go on to lead a false trail for the dogs. Theon's hunt leads him nowhere, but a freed Winterfell prisoner named Reek (who in actuality is Ramsay Snow in disguise) takes them to a mill where he remembers there being two boys. They are not orphans but the miller's sons. Both boys are killed with their mother. Later the boys' bodies are treated as in the TV series to cover the Stark boys' escape. It is unknown where was the miller at that time, and how he reacted when he found his wife dead and his sons missing. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "The Lion and the Rose" ↑ "Kill the Boy" ↑ "Hardhome" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Stark Lord: Prince Bran Stark Heir: Prince Rickon Stark Seat: Winterfell (formerly) Lands: The North Title(s): King in the North · Lord Paramount of the North · Lord of Winterfell Ancestors: Brandon the Builder · Brandon the Breaker · Dorren Stark · Rodrik Stark · Karlon Stark · Osric Stark · Torrhen Stark · Cregan Stark Current members: Sansa Stark · Arya Stark · Benjen Stark Deceased members: Rickard Stark · Brandon Stark · Lyanna Stark · Eddard Stark · King Robb Stark · Talisa Stark · Catelyn Stark · Jon Snow Household: {Ser Rodrik Cassel} · {Maester Luwin} · {Jory Cassel} · {Vayon Poole} · {Septa Mordane} · Jeyne Poole · Osha · Hodor · Farlen · {Old Nan} · Mikken · Varly · Heward · Wyl · Tomard · Tommy · Jacks Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jack?oldid=232541"