Jack Bulwer Season(s) 4 Appeared in "The Mountain and the Viper" Also known as Black Jack Bulwer Status Deceased Death Killed by wildlings Origin Blackcrown Allegiance The Night's Watch 
House Bulwer Culture Andal Portrayed by Cormac McDonagh Grenn: "We just cower in here while they slaughter our brothers?" Edd: "Our brother had orders to stay at Castle Black." Grenn: "Oh, so it's alright, then?! Black Jack and Kegs and Mully chopped to pieces because they broke the rules?!" Edd: "I didn't say it was alright! I'm saying they shouldn't have been there." — Grenn and Eddison Tollett[src] 

Jack Bulwer, nicknamed Black Jack Bulwer, is a minor character in the fourth season. He is a Ranger of the Night's Watch. He is originally from House Bulwer of Blackcrown. He is played by guest star Cormac McDonagh and only appears in "The Mountain and the Viper". Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 4Edit 

Along with Kegs and Mully, he travels to the brothel in Mole's Town. They sit drinking and listening to a whore belching out the melodies to popular songs. Jack correctly guesses that she is belching "The Bear and the Maiden Fair". She compliments him on his hearing, but quips that it is a shame that he has a hangnail for a penis. They are later slaughtered when a group of wildlings led by Tormund and Styr attack the village. News of their deaths soon reaches Castle Black. AppearanceEdit Season four credits Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Black Jack Bulwer is not killed in a wildling attack on Mole's Town. He survives the Battle of Castle Black. 

In "A Dance with Dragons", Jon sends Jack Bulwer and eight more rangers to find Tormund. He and two of the others (Garth Greyfeather&nbsp;and Hairy Hal) are killed by the Wildling&nbsp;raider known as the Weeper, and their eyeless heads are brought to Castle Black. See alsoEdit Jack Bulwer on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jack_Bulwer?oldid=228391"