Jafer Flowers Season(s) 1 Appeared in "The Pointy End" Status Deceased Death Killed and raised as a wight, then burned 
"The Pointy End" Origin The Reach Allegiance Formerly the Night's Watch 
The White Walkers Portrayed by Unknown "The other one is Jafer Flowers, my lord." ―Othell Yarwyck to Jeor Mormont[src] 

Jafer Flowers is a background character in the first season. He is played by an unidentified extra and only appears in "The Pointy End." He is a ranger of the Night's Watch and is killed while beyond the Wall. His body is found and returned to Castle Black. Later, his body is burned alongside Othor's after a failed attack on the Lord Commander. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Jafer Flowers is a ranger in the Night's Watch. His name, Flowers, suggests that he was a bastard from the Reach before joining the Watch. He and Othor accompanied Benjen Stark's ranging mission beyond the Wall. Both Jafer and Othor are killed while on this mission. Season 1Edit 

Jon Snow's direwolf, Ghost, finds Flowers' severed hand in the Haunted Forest. The corpses of Othor and the rest of Jafer Flowers are found beyond the Wall by Samwell Tarly, Jon and a party led by Othell Yarwyck. They return the corpses to Castle Black and suggest they be burned, but Lord Commander Jeor Mormont decides to let Maester Aemon examine them first. 

At night, the corpses rise as wights. While Othor attacks Lord Commander Mormont, Flowers causes trouble elsewhere before being put down and burned. Both bodies are re-burned the next day, to be sure. Samwell notes that according to a book he found in Aemon's library, the touch of the White Walkers can animate the dead. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jafer Flowers' wight attacked the main castle garrison. The wight killed five men, among them Ser Jaremy Rykker, and continued to attack even after having its head cut off - it was only subdued after being chopped to pieces by a dozen swordsmen. 

His name indicates that he was originally born as a bastard in the Reach. 

Unlike in the series, when the bodies of Othor and Jafer were brought to Castle Black, both corpses had blue eyes - different from the eye color they had in their lives. 

Jafer's severed hand, which was torn by Ghost, continued to twitch and stir long after Jafer was destroyed. Alliser Thorne took it to King's Landing, but it had rotted away while he was waiting for an audience. See alsoEdit Jafer Flowers on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "The Pointy End" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jafer_Flowers?oldid=232586"