Jaime Lannister Season(s) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 First seen "Winter is Coming" Appeared in 35 episodes (see below) Titles Lord Commander of the Kingsguard 
Ser Also known as The Kingslayer 
Oathbreaker 
Man without Honor Status Alive Age Approx. 42 in Season 6 Origin Casterly Rock Allegiance Kingsguard 
House Lannister Culture Andal Family {Tywin Lannister} - father/first cousin once removed 
{Joanna Lannister} - mother/first cousin once removed 
{Tytos Lannister} - paternal grandfather 
Cersei Lannister - twin sister/second cousin/ex-lover 
Tyrion Lannister - brother/second cousin 
Kevan Lannister - uncle 
Dorna Lannister - aunt 
Lancel Lannister - first cousin 
{Martyn Lannister} - first cousin 
{Willem Lannister} - first cousin 
{Joffrey Baratheon} - nephew/son/first cousin once removed 
Tommen Baratheon - nephew/son/first cousin once removed 
{Myrcella Baratheon} - niece/daughter/first cousin once removed 
{Robert Baratheon} - brother-in-law 
{Cersei's black-haired son} - trueborn nephew 
Sansa Stark - sister-in-law 
Margaery Tyrell - daughter-in-law Portrayed by Nikolaj Coster-Waldau "There are no men like me, only me." ―Jaime Lannister[src] 

Jaime Lannister is a major character in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth seasons. He is played by starring cast member Nikolaj Coster-Waldau and debuts in the series premiere. 

Ser Jaime Lannister is a knight of the Kingsguard, the son of Tywin Lannister, twin brother of Queen Cersei Lannister, and older brother of Tyrion Lannister. Previously he served in the Kingsguard of Aerys II Targaryen and, infamously, he betrayed and killed Aerys during the Sack of King's Landing, earning him the sobriquet "The Kingslayer". Jaime is involved in an incestuous sexual relationship with Cersei, and, unknown to most, is the biological father of her three children, Joffrey, Myrcella and Tommen. 

Jaime visits Winterfell in King Robert's entourage; he pushes Bran Stark from a window when Bran sees him having intercourse with Cersei. Bran survives but is paralyzed from the waist down and has no memory of the event. Evidence implicating House Lannister emerges and sparks a war with the Starks, which eventually escalates into a major conflict. Jaime leaves his post to join his father's attack on the Riverlands. After Joffrey assumes the Iron Throne, Jaime is promoted in absentia to Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. However, his army is routed by Robb Stark's forces during the Battle of the Whispering Wood and he is taken prisoner. Catelyn Stark later releases him with the promise that he will return her daughters Sansa and Arya to her. 

Escorted by Brienne of Tarth, they begin an arduous journey back to King's Landing, during which Jaime's sword hand is cut off by Locke. Jaime and Brienne eventually reach the capital, where Jaime ultimately helps Tyrion escape from prison for a murder he did not commit, though it indirectly leads to Tywin's murder at Tyrion's hands, which Jaime holds himself partly responsible for. Since losing his hand, it has been replaced by a golden prosthetic, and Jaime has had to learn how to fight with his remaining left hand, occasionally using the replacement to his advantage. He is later sent by Cersei to Dorne to retrieve Myrcella, fearing reprisals from the family of Oberyn Martell following his death in Tyrion's trial by combat. The mission ends in failure, however, and Myrcella dies from poisoning in Jaime's arms after revealing her awareness that he is her father. Contents[show] Biography Background 

Ser Jaime Lannister is a knight of the Kingsguard, a position he has held for twenty years since he was a teenager, the youngest man ever appointed to its membership. He was appointed to the position by the Mad King, Aerys II Targaryen. 

Jaime slays the Mad King. 

At the conclusion of Robert's Rebellion, Jaime's father Tywin betrayed King Aerys by arriving at the gates of King's Landing with the main Lannister army and pleading his allegiance, then after his army was allowed inside the gates, turning them loose to attack the city. As Lannister soldiers raped and pillaged throughout the city during the Sack of King's Landing, King Aerys remained holed up inside the Red Keep, for hours maniacally repeating the order to "burn them all". Despite being sworn by the holiest oaths to protect the king as a member of the Kingsguard, Jaime ultimately turned his own sword on Aerys, slaying him at the foot of the Iron Throne itself. For this infamous act, he is known throughout the Seven Kingdoms as "the Kingslayer", to his irritation. 

Jaime always refused to discuss precisely what happened the day he slew the Mad King, and thus his true motivations– and what Aerys nearly did to King's Landing– were never revealed. On one occasion he confides the truth to Brienne of Tarth:&nbsp;Aerys' final orders were for Jaime to kill his father, and to burn the entire city and its inhabitants with wildfire. Unwilling to let that happen, Jaime killed him, and in doing so actually saved thousands of innocent lives. He adds that the "honorable" Ned Stark judged him guilty immediately, without hearing Jaime's reasons. 

He was forgiven his breaking of his vows by King Robert Baratheon and permitted to remain in the Kingsguard as part of Robert's alliance with House Lannister, along with the marriage of Jaime's twin sister Cersei to Robert. In addition to the slaying of the Mad King, Jaime is known for his handsome looks, arrogant demeanor, and superb martial skills. He is so skilled with a sword that he claims that there are only three men in the seven kingdoms who may have a chance at beating him in a fair duel. 

Jaime is the eldest son of Joanna Lannister and Lord Tywin Lannister. Tywin is the head of House Lannister, the richest man in the Seven Kingdoms and Lord Paramount of the Westerlands. The Westerlands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Lannister is one of the Great Houses of the realm. Jaime had great difficulty learning to read as a child because he transposed letters in his mind. Tywin sat with him through four hours a day practicing until he learnt. Jaime resented being forced to spend so much time on reading. 

Jaime is the older brother of Tyrion and the twin brother of Cersei. Their mother died giving birth to Tyrion. Due to his place in the Kingsguard, Jaime cannot inherit his father's lands or titles, making Tyrion his father's heir; a fact which vexes Tywin. Unlike Cersei and Tywin, Jaime always treated Tyrion with a degree of kindness and respect. In a secret known to only a few, Jaime is Cersei's lover and the biological father of her children, Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen, whom the world believes are Robert's kin. Season 1 

Jaime confronts Bran, before pushing him out a window. 

In King's Landing, Jaime counsels his sister, Cersei over fears that Jon Arryn may have discovered their secret prior to his death. Jaime argues that even if he knew, Arryn did not inform the king, for if he had, they would already be dead. If Arryn knew, his knowledge died with him. He accompanies King Robert to Winterfell where the king plans to ask Eddard Stark to replace Jon Arryn as Hand of the King. After their arrival, Cersei sends Jaime to find their younger brother Tyrion. Jaime tracks Tyrion to a brothel, tells him that he is needed at the feast that night and brings him several whores to speed his exit. 

At the evening feast, Jaime blocks Eddard's path and asks if there will be a possibility of their competing against each other at a tournament. Eddard dismissively says no, as he doesn't play at fighting, and doesn't show off his skills to let opponents know his abilities. The next day, Eddard and Robert go hunting, leaving the castle largely empty. Cersei and Jaime liaise in a derelict tower. Bran Stark climbs the tower and finds them engaged in sexual intercourse. He is caught watching by Cersei, and Jaime grabs him. He looks out the window and only sees Bran's direwolf pup Summer. He asks Bran how old he is, and he replies, "Ten."Jaime glances momentarily back at Cersei and says, "The things I do for love", and pushes Bran out the window. 

Tyrion ponders the circumstances of Bran's fall with an uneasy Jaime and Cersei. 

Several days later at breakfast, Tyrion tells his family that Bran is expected to live and notes his sibling's guarded reactions to the news. Tyrion informs them of his decision to journey north to see the Wall before returning to King's Landing. Just before departing Winterfell, Jaime talks to Jon Snow in the courtyard. Ostensibly, he thanks Jon for his service joining the Night Watch, but really he mocking him, as those from the south see it as waste of time (ironically, Jaime's&nbsp;Kingsguard&nbsp;vows are also for life and prevent him from marrying, but he still gets to live in the capital city and not exiled to the frozen gloom of the Wall). The parties depart Winterfell. Jaime is with the group traveling south to King's Landing. 

Jaime comforts Cersei. 

The royal party reaches King's landing. Eddard barely has time to get off his horse before he is asked to attend a meeting of the king's small council. Jaime awaits him in the throne room. Jaime is unhappy with Eddard judging him for killing the Mad King, the murderer of Eddard's father and brother, but Eddard is unapologetic. He says it wasn't justice that drove Jaime to kill Aerys, and that Jaime served Aerys loyally when serving was the easier thing to do.A raven arrives at King's Landing with news of Bran's recovery. In the capital, Cersei fears he will expose their secret, but Jaime comforts her.&nbsp; 

Jaime stands alongside Ser Barristan. 

Elsewhere, Robert swaps old war stories with Ser Barristan Selmy, a distinguished and famous knight and commander of the Kingsguard. Jaime is called in to join them. He tells them that the first man he killed was an outlaw from the Kingswood Brotherhood, and, as he took off the&nbsp;man's head, there were no last words. Disappointed in not being able to mock him, Robert realizes that he never asked Jaime&nbsp;what King Aerys Targaryen's last words were, then taunts&nbsp;Jaime for killing a defenseless old man he had sworn to protect. Jaime tersely responds that the last thing the Mad&nbsp;King said was the same&nbsp;thing he'd been raving for hours, since the sack of the capital by the rebels began: "Burn them all!" This silences Robert's levity. Jaime guards the king's bedroom while Robert cavorts with several women, Jaime taking it as a calculated insult to himself and his sister. He reminisces with Jory Cassel, the captain of Eddard's household guards, about the Siege of Pyke during the Greyjoy Rebellion and the fierceness of the fighting. 

Jaime confronts Eddard Stark in King's Landing. 

Upon hearing of his brother's capture by Catelyn Stark, he confronts Eddard in the streets of King's Landing. Knowing that killing Eddard will result in Tyrion's death, he instead has Eddard's guards executed, stabbing Jory through the eye himself. He and Eddard fiercely cross swords in an intense duel, and Jaime is surprised that Eddard is a match for him. After minutes of duelling, and neither opponent gaining ground on the other, the fight ends abruptly and prematurely when a Lannister guardsmen stabs Eddard through the leg. An irritated Jaime knocks out the guardsman and then departs the city, telling Eddard that he wants his brother back. 

Jaime discusses legacy with his father. 

Jaime joins the army of his father, Tywin Lannister, in the field. Tywin laments Jaime's pride and how he spends so much effort trying to convince others he doesn't care what they think of him. Tywin is incredulous and disgusted that Jaime would let Eddard live and go free because his victory was not "clean". He says that if other houses think they can take a Lannister hostage and not suffer for it they will lose respect for the Lannister name. Tywin says that Jaime must accept responsibility for the future destiny of their house, which will be decided by this war against the Tullys and Starks. They will either die out like the&nbsp;Targaryens or begin a dynasty that will last 1,000 years. He gives Jaime thirty thousand men and sends him to besiege Riverrun. In King's Landing, Eddard tells Cersei that he knows that Jaime is the true father of Cersei's three children. She admits it, saying they have loved one another from the womb and are destined to be together always. 

Some weeks later, Ser Kevan Lannister, Jaime's uncle, tells Tyrion that Jaime has won several significant battles, smashing a host of the river lords at the Golden Tooth and is now laying siege to Riverrun. 

Robb Stark marches two thousand men towards Tywin's forces in order to create a distraction. The remaining force feints outside Riverrun, drawing out Jaime and a small number of troops to deal with what appears to be a small scouting party, and Jaime is taken prisoner in the resulting Battle of the Whispering Wood. Jaime offers to fight Robb in single combat to decide the war, but Robb knows that Jaime is better at swords than he is and says they aren't going to do it his way. Robb initially intends to use Jaime as a&nbsp;bargaining chip for his father's and sisters' lives. However, Eddard is executed in King's Landing before news of Jaime's capture can reach the&nbsp;capital. 

Jaime is captured by Robb's army. 

Catelyn Stark visits the captive Jaime. He taunts Catelyn, saying widowhood suits her, informing her that he would have sex with her if she was lonely. She hits him in the head with a rock. Jaime knows that the Starks won't kill him as long as his sister holds Sansa and Arya hostage, but Jaime Lannister always taunts others while he is in chains to show them he doesn't fear them and they aren't superior to him. She says he has gone against the laws of gods and man, he says, "What Gods?" Where were her gods when her husband was killed. When she says injustice in the world is because of men like him, he tells her, "There are no men like me. Only me." When asked directly, he admits pushing Bran from the tower, but doesn't reveal why. Season 2 

Jaime and Grey Wind face to face. 

Jaime remains a captive of House Stark. King Robb Stark keeps Jaime caged and chained to a post in his camp at all times to prevent Lord Tywin bribing or threatening one of his bannermen into giving him up. Jaime remains defiant, taunting and insulting Robb when he comes to confront him. King Stannis Baratheon has made Joffrey's parentage public, by sending letters to all the lords throughout the kingdom, exposing Jaime's incest with Cersei. Jaime counters that Stannis has a personal stake in these accusations, as if all of Cersei's children are Jaime's bastards that means Stannis is heir to the throne. However it is Jaime who is intimidated when Robb threatens him with his snarling direwolf Grey Wind. 

Months later, Jaime is joined in his cell by his distant cousin Alton Lannister. They talk about the time Alton served as Jaime's squire at a tourney, and Jaime tell him about his own experiences as squire of Ser Barristan Selmy. Drawing Alton Lannister closer, Jaime seizes the opportunity to escape. When he leans over to hear Jaime whisper about an escape plan, Jaime head butts him then strikes him in the head repeatedly cracking his skull. When the guard (Torrhen Karstark) is distracted by discovering Alton's body bloody and convulsing, Jaime strangles him to death and takes his keys to free himself from his chains. 

Jaime talking to Lady Stark. 

Jaime is soon recaptured. Lord Rickard Karstark demands Jaime's head for killing his son. Catelyn Stark convinces Rickard to wait until Robb returns but fears that his patience will not hold. Catelyn visits Jaime's cell with her female guard Brienne. She accuses Jaime of being a man without honor because of his broken vows. Jaime explains his view that his vows frequently conflicted with one another. He asserts that he has more honor than some; he reveals that Cersei is the only one he has slept with and reminds Catelyn how her husband Eddard Stark cheated on her and fathered Jon Snow. Catelyn releases Jaime. She tasks Brienne with escorting him to King's Landing to exchange him for her captive daughters. 

Jaime and Brienne escaping on their way to King's Landing. 

Brienne successfully smuggles him out of the camp on horseback and then they travel by rowboat to evade pursuit. Jaime needles her about her appearance and masculinity, unsuccessfully attempting to goad her into dueling him. He changes subject, focusing on her virginity and childhood. They find a trio of women, hanged for sleeping with Lannister soldiers. He mocks her service to House Stark and she asserts that she serves Lady Catelyn specifically. As Brienne goes to bury the bodies they are accosted by a trio of Stark soldiers. Brienne kills all three after they recognize Jaime, and he is impressed by her skill. He questions her readiness to kill Stark men and she reasserts her dedication to Catelyn and the task she set her. Season 3 

Jaime continues to be escorted by Brienne to King's Landing. On their way there, they are spotted by a traveler. Jaime urges Brienne&nbsp;to kill the traveler, since he believes the man recognized him and will give away their whereabouts, but she refuses. 

Brienne beats Jaime down 

Later, the pair have to cross a river, which means they can either attempt a dangerous fording or take the bridge, which will probably be watched.&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;takes the safer route of the bridge, but Jaime manages to distract her long enough to take away her spare sword and cut his bonds.&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;and Jaime enter into an extended sword fight on the bridge. Jaime, one of the most skilled swordsmen in all of&nbsp;Westeros, nearly overcomes&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;several times. However, Jaime's mobility is reduced because his hands are still manacled, and he is malnourished after having spent the past full year chained up in a cell. Jaime begins to tire, and&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;wears him down further by making simple body-blows with kicks and punches. After a protracted fight Jaime finally slumps to the ground in exhaustion. Just then, riders from House Bolton arrive led by a man named&nbsp;Locke. Jaime asks if they want to negotiate, but Locke says they'll have his head if he doesn't bring the&nbsp;Kingslayer&nbsp;back to the King in the North, so there's not much Jaime can do to dissuade him from taking them prisoner. 

Along with Brienne, he is taken captive by&nbsp;Locke&nbsp;and his men. As they ride along, the men sing a rousing chorus of&nbsp;The Bear and the Maiden Fair. Tied up back to back on one of the horses, Jaime warns&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;that when they make camp for the night, they will rape her, more than once, and that his honest advice is to give no resistance, and just think of&nbsp;Renly. They were only sent to capture Jaime, therefore&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;means nothing to them, so at the slightest provocation they will kill her without hesitation.&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;says she will fight even if they kill her, and Jaime agrees that if he were a woman, he would fight to the death before being raped too. 

Jaime's swordhand is severed by Locke 

Later that night Locke's men make camp, and do indeed drag&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;kicking and screaming into the bushes to gang-rape her. Jaime is disgusted by this pointless brutality, so he points out to Locke that&nbsp;Brienne&nbsp;is actually a noblewoman and the sole heir of Lord&nbsp;Selwyn of&nbsp;Tarth, the "Sapphire Isle", and her father will pay them a ransom of her weight in sapphires - provided that she is unharmed. Locke agrees and calls his men back before they are able to rape&nbsp;Brienne, and they tie her up to a tree again. Jaime then tries to smooth-talk Locke once again with offers of how his father&nbsp;Tywin&nbsp;will make him extravagantly rich if he lets Jaime go. Tiring of Jaime's frequent attempts to bribe him into turning over to the&nbsp;Lannister&nbsp;side, Locke decides to prove that Jaime's father will never deal with the likes of him. At first Locke has his men untie Jaime on the pretext of letting him go, but then his men hold him down on a chopping block while Locke grabs a carving knife: his reasoning being that maiming&nbsp;Tywin's&nbsp;son will be the ultimate proof that the&nbsp;Lannisters&nbsp;would never deal with Locke, much less bribe him. Locke says that Jaime's father can't help him now, and "this should help you remember!" - as he swings down the carving knife and hacks off Jaime's sword-hand. For half a second, Jaime stares at his severed right hand in shock, before what just happened can register in his mind, then he screams in horror. 

Jaime lays helpless in the mud 

The following day, Locke's men lead their prisoners Jaime and Brienne of Tarth on horseback. Jaime's severed right hand is tied onto a rope that hangs around his neck. Jaime is physically in agony from his wound, feverish and half-delirious. Jaime can barely stay conscious, and he falls headlong off of his horse into the mud. Laying in the mud Jaime is mocked and tormented by Locke and his men, giving him horse piss to drink. However Jaime manages to steal a sword, and unsuccessfully tries to fight them off using only his left hand. Jaime is so weak and feverish that he can barely stand, much less wield a sword and must therefore quickly give up trying. His only hope is that one of the men would give him a small dignified death having a sword in his hand. He eventually succumbs to exhaustion and Locke simply warns him that if he tries that again he'll cut off his other hand. 

Jaime recounts the story of slaying the Mad King. 

Later that night Jaime and Brienne are restrained near a campfire. Jaime refuses to eat, and says he wants to die. Brienne says he should try to live for revenge, but Jaime says he was that hand, and without his sword-hand, even if he escapes, he is nothing, and would rather die as the Jaime he was than go on living, robbed of his very identity. Brienne says she overheard when he earlier managed to talk Locke out of letting his men gang-rape her. Brienne is confused, and asks Jaime why he helped her, but he doesn't answer. Brienne grows angry, insinuating to Jaime that this is the first time he's had to face the real world where things people care about get taken away, but he's pathetically moping around like a woman. Her criticism and strength convinces Jaime to start eating. 

The party eventually arrives at Harrenhal, where Roose Bolton is visibly angered at Locke for mutilating Jaime. Jaime asks Bolton about Cersei, and Bolton briefly tortures him emotionally, describing Stannis Baratheon's attack on King's Landing in a way that seems as if he will say Cersei was killed, but he informs him that Tywin and the Tyrell army arrived to drive Stannis away, and Cersei is alive and well. Jaime is so relieved that he falls to his knees. His stump is later tended to by Qyburn, an ex-maester who was expelled from the Order for his unethical but successful experiments. Qyburn implies that he may need to cut off Jaime's arm to stop the corruption spreading, but Jaime threatens to kill him if he does, so Qyburn agrees to only cut away the rotting flesh, and offers Jaime milk of the poppy to ease the pain, but Jaime, fearing that Qyburn will sedate him and still amputate his arm, refuses, and screams in agony as Qyburn starts operating on him. 

While Brienne is bathing alone in baths of Harrenhal, Jaime approaches and slips into the opposite corner. He makes a snide remark about Brienne unable to protect Renly and for being the reason he died. She stands defiantly, and he quickly apologizes, claiming that Brienne has protected him better than most. Jaime begins to open up to Brienne, and tells the story of how he slew&nbsp;the Mad King. He reveals to a shocked&nbsp;Brienne the truth of that day, something he has never told anyone else. Jaime begins to pass out and collapses in Brienne's arms. She calls for the guards to help the Kingslayer, but he corrects her and says his name is Jaime. 

Jaime in discussions with Roose Bolton. 

While sitting at the dinner table with Brienne and Roose Bolton, Jaime relentlessly tries to cut his meat with one hand. Roose tells Jaime that wars cost money and that many people would pay a great deal of money for him. After discussing how busy Tywin is, Jaime informs Roose that his father would make time for him. Roose tells Jaime, that when he is well enough to travel, he will allow him to return to King's Landing on the condition that he will tell Tywin the truth, that he had nothing to do with his maiming. Roose does not allow Brienne to join Jaime however, claiming she is charged with abetting treason. Before Roose heads off to the Twins, Jaime jokingly tells him to send his regards to Robb Stark, a task that Roose actually does carry out right before killing the Young Wolf. 

Jaime arrives in Brienne's chambers to tell her goodbye before he leaves for King's Landing. He informs her that Roose Bolton has demanded she stay behind with Locke. He tells Brienne that he owes her a debt. Brienne tells Jaime that if he keeps his word to Catelyn Stark the debt will be paid. Jaime promises that he will return the Stark girls to their mother. 

Jaime leaves Harrenhal and begins his journey back to King's Landing. 

Along their travel back to the Capital, the group stops for Qyburn to medicate Jaime's healing stump. Jaime notes that Qyburn's work is more effective than Grand Maester Pycelle and asks why he was expelled from the Order of Maesters. Qyburn tells him that it was because his experiments were "too bold". When Jaime mocks him, Qyburn subtly bashes him for all the lives he has taken while in the Kingsguard. Qyburn informs Jaime that Selwyn Tarth offered 300 Gold dragons for Brienne's return, but Locke refused; believing that Lord Selwyn has all the sapphire mines in Westeros. Locke, feeling cheated, would make Brienne the men's entertainment for the night. Jaime senses a feeling of obligation to Brienne, knowing it is his fault for Locke believing there is a fortune in sapphires in Tarth. He approaches Steelshanks and tells him they are to return to Harrenhal. Jaime threatens that he will tell his father upon arrival in Kings Landing, that Steelshanks chopped his hand off. Or, he says he could tell his father that Steelshanks saved his life. Steelshanks relents and escorts Jaime back to Harrenhal, where he finds Brienne&nbsp;being forced to fight a bear in a gladiatorial pit, using only a wooden sword. Jaime dives into the pit to aid her, forcing Steelshanks to aid them both by firing arrows at the bear. Jaime and Brienne narrowly escape the bear, and he once again demands that she accompanies him, asking Locke whether he believes Bolton would prefer to reward him or to ensure that Jaime reaches King's Landing. This time, Locke relents, and Jaime and Brienne depart together. Though this is the final time Jaime and Locke meet, Jaime's lost hand is ultimately avenged when Bran Stark snaps Locke's neck. 

Jaime returns to Cersei in the Red Keep. 

Jaime walks into the gates of King's Landing with Brienne and Qyburn. A worker pulling a cart orders that he move out of the way, calling him a "Country Boy". Jaime immediately returns to Cersei back at the Red Keep. He steps into her room and notices her admiring a seashell fondly. He says her name and as she turns, he notices she is taken aback by his stump. Season 4 

Jaime wields a newly fresh-forged Valyrian steel sword with his left hand. 

Jaime is offered a sword by his father Tywin&nbsp;which is made of&nbsp;Valyrian steel&nbsp;from the recently reforged&nbsp;Ice, the Starks'&nbsp;ancestral sword. He comments that House Lannister has always wanted its own Valyrian blade and Tywin answers that they now have two. He then reveals to Jaime his plan to have him removed from the&nbsp;Kingsguard&nbsp;so that he can return to&nbsp;Casterly Rock&nbsp;and rule as Lord in his stead. However, Jaime tells him that he has no plans of resigning and that he will remain in King's Landing to protect the King. He also rejects that this is about his honor, as he believes that his honor is too far gone so he might as well do what he wants rather than what is expected of him. Tywin&nbsp;agrees to let him but tells him that he no longer considers him a Lannister and allows him to keep the sword, saying that a 'one armed man with no family needs all the help he can get'. 

​​Cersei later offers Jaime a golden hand to cover his stump. As&nbsp;Qyburn&nbsp;fits it to him, he complains about it, believing it to be useless. He later tries to get intimate with&nbsp;Cersei but she refuses him saying that she blames him for leaving King's Landing after his fight with Ned Stark and for getting captured. Jaime protests that he murdered people so he could get back to her, but Cersei coldly replies, "You took too long." Jaime, Meryn and Joffrey are later discussing which Kingsguard&nbsp;will be where in the wedding. Joffrey is paying no attention because he thinks he is safe now that the war is over but Jaime tells him that the war is not over while Stannis still lives. Jaime and Brienne&nbsp;discuss what to do with Sansa. Brienne&nbsp;says that Jaime must keep his vow and get Sansa out of Kings landing but Jaime says that her famliy are dead and there is no where to take her that is safer than Kings landing. 

Jaime talks with his brother. 

Jaime is at Tyrion's​&nbsp;chambers and they're having a drink together. Tyrion states that he is impressed with his new hand and it's much better than the old one. Jaime brings a dilemma of his to Tyrion that he can't use a sword and he can't train because it will be humiliating, Tyrion says he knows just the man, which is Ser Bronn. Jaime and Bronn&nbsp;meet up by the sea to train, Jaime is worried that someone might hear them but Bronn responds that he routinely has sex with a married woman in that place and that she is a screamer; if no one heard her, no one will hear them. At the wedding feast, Jaime is standing in his spot in the Kingsguard&nbsp;formation, where Loras&nbsp;Tyrell&nbsp;accidentally bumps into him and they talk about Cersei. Jaime says that Loras will never marry Cersei and Loras replies that neither will he. When Joffrey is dying, Jaime rushes over to his son's aid and is with him while he dies. 

Jaime comforts his sister over Joffrey's death in the Sept of Baelor. 

Jaime enters to Great Sept of Baelor to see Cersei and his dead son. Jaime sends the septon and septas away so he can be alone with Cersei. Cersei wants the death of the accused Tyrion and his wife, Sansa Stark. She asks Jaime to kill Tyrion for murdering their son because she is sure Tyrion will talk his way out of it. Jaime refuses and tries to comfort her through his affections. Cersei initially kisses Jaime then pulls away and turns back to her dead son after which Jaime proclaims "You're a hateful woman, why have the gods condemned me to love a hateful woman?!?" Jaime then becomes aggressive. They are in the sept during a private viewing of their son's body so Cersei insists it is not right and repeatedly asks Jaime to stop but he refuses. They embrace and proceed to have rough, angry sex on the floor in front of Joffrey's corpse. See main article: "The Jaime/Cersei sex scene in "Breaker of Chains". 

Bronn training Jaime to fight with his left hand. 

Sometime later, Jaime and Bronn are training and it seems that Jaime has improved his sword skills with his left hand as he begins to overpower Bronn. Bronn&nbsp;then takes off Jaime's golden hand and slaps him with it and he falls to the ground, lecturing Jaime as to the value of being willing to fight dirty. Jaime asks Bronn his opinion on the murder and Bronn says that Tyrion is innocent and is shocked when he realizes that Jaime hasn't seen Tyrion yet and tells him about Tyrion's original choice for his trial by combat was Jaime. After hearing this he visits Tyrion and they show a strong bond for each other.&nbsp;This also causes Jaime to realize Tyrion is innocent. 

Jaime visits Cersei on her request but is disappointed when she only wishes to know Kingsguard formations for Tommen. She&nbsp;then confronts him about visiting Tyrion.&nbsp;Jaime tries to convince&nbsp;Cersei that&nbsp;their brother is innocent but she refuses to listen&nbsp;and tells him to leave. Jaime and Brienne are talking in the Kingsguard tower. They talk about Jaime's honor which he hopes to reclaim. He gives Brienne his Valyrian&nbsp;steel blade and brand new armor and tells her to find Sansa and get her somewhere safe, far away from his sister. He also gives her&nbsp; 

Jaime discusses with Cersei inside her chambers. 

another present, a squire, Podrick Payne.&nbsp;She is reluctant at first thinking that he will slow her down but she accepts. Jaime says his goodbye to Brienne, who has mutual emotions as he watches her leave the capital.&nbsp;Jaime is present at Tommen's coronation along with other Kingsguard. 

Jaime is ordered by his father to have Tyrion shackled before his trial. It is clear that the trial is a farce as Tyrion has no one to speak for him and Cersei&nbsp;has gathered enough witnesses who can provide circumstantial evidence against their brother. At recess, an angered Jaime goes to Tywin and offers him a deal; he will leave the Kingsguard&nbsp;and take his place as Tywin's heir if Tyrion's life is spared. Tywin immediately agrees and says that Tyrion will be declared guilty and allowed to join the&nbsp; 

Jaime tells Tyrion of his and Tywin's plan to let him join the Night's Watch. 

Night's Watch. Tywin's rapid agreement made Jaime realize that this was his plan from the start but he nevertheless agrees to the deal. Before the trial resumes, he tells Tyrion to agree but can only watch as&nbsp;Shae's testimony sends Tyrion over the edge, and he demands a&nbsp;trial by combat. 

After the trial, Jaime berates Tyrion&nbsp;in his cell for his outburst and not going through with the deal he made with Tywin. Tyrion knew that the deal was everything his father wanted and could not go through with it. Jaime points out that, despite his practice with Bronn, his current skill with a sword would be useless in a trial by combat. Tyrion jokes how devastating it would be for Tywin if Jaime were to die in his trial by combat. Jaime then tells Tyrion who Cersei has chosen as their champion; Ser Gregor Clegane. 

Jaime angry at Tyrion after the failed plan to get him join the Night's Watch. 

On the day of the trial by combat, Jaime visits Tyrion in his cell. They discuss their dead cousin Orson Lannister and his habit to smash beetles with rocks for no reason. Tyrion says he used to watch Orson for long periods of time and think about the reason behind his actions, but he hasn't come to any conclusion why all those countless beetles had to be killed. When Jaime says he doesn't know either, bells start tolling and he wishes Tyrion good luck. Shortly after, he seats himself next to Tywin, Mace Tyrell, Cersei, Pycelle and Varys in the royal box to watch the duel. He exchanges a few supportive and cheerful looks with Tyrion when Oberyn seems to be winning, but is very unhappy at the result of the trial by combat which condemns his brother to death - Ser Gregor Clegane smashing Oberyn's head in. 

Cersei finds Jaime in the White Sword Tower, and he expresses disgust at her blatant attempts to have Tyrion killed. Cersei accuses that Tyrion killed their mother when she gave birth to him. Jaime is surprised that she still irrationally blames him for that, pointing out that he was an infant and had no control over what happened. He insists that&nbsp;Tyrion is her family whether she chooses to accept it or not. She rebukes his claim, saying he is not her family and that they all have a choice,&nbsp;and that she chooses Jaime. She then&nbsp;reveals that she has spilled their secret to&nbsp; 

Jaime rescues Tyrion. 

Tywin. He is stunned by her actions, asking how Tywin&nbsp;reacted to the news, but she&nbsp;states that she does not want to discuss their father.&nbsp;Cersei begins to seduce him, saying she chooses her brother over everyone else in the world, no longer concerned with whether everyone else knows their secret. Jaime yields to her advances, kissing her passionately and throwing her on the table where they begin to have sex. 

Jaime's discontent with the result of the trial leads him to break Tyrion out of jail, and arrange&nbsp;his brother's fleeing to Essos using Varys to ship him&nbsp;across the sea. He leads Tyrion to a stairway leading up to a locked door, instructing Tyrion to knock on it twice and then twice more to summon Varys, who will lead him to the ship. Before they part ways, they share a tender embrace and say their goodbyes, unsure if either will ever see each other again. Season 5 

During the funeral of his father, Tywin Lannister, Jaime meets with Cersei in the Great Sept of Baelor. Jaime warns his sister that all the power and prestige their father built for House Lannister belongs to them now and that, once everyone sees that Tywin is truly dead, their enemies will do everything they can to take it away from them. Cersei bluntly states that their true enemy is Tyrion and that Jaime is partly responsible for Tywin's death since he was the one who released their father's murderer. He is left alone in the Sept, looking at his father's corpse and feeling guilty. 

Jaime is summoned by Cersei, who has received a "gift" from Dorne: an ornately carved viper, with Princess Myrcella's unique Lannister pendant suspended from its fangs. Both siblings understand the gift as a threat from House Martell. Even though she is equally to blame for covering up their incest, Cersei lashes out at Jaime for not being a father to any of their children, to which he points out that if he had been, their children would be stoned in the streets. Jaime declares that he will bring Myrcella home, but Cersei mockingly asks how can a one-handed man rescue a princess alone. However, Jaime never said he was going alone. 

Later, Jaime goes to Castle Stokeworth in order to recruit Ser Bronn of the Blackwater on his mission to return Myrcella to King's Landing. To convince him to go, Jaime reveals that Cersei has arranged for Willas Bracken to marry Lollys Stokeworth instead of Bronn, and offers him a much better girl than Lollys and a much better castle once they return from Dorne. 

During the journey to Dorne, Bronn pushes Jaime for answers as to why he is rescuing Myrcella personally instead of sending an army. Jaime responds that he does not want to start a war, but Bronn insinuates that he knows Myrcella is actually Jaime's daughter and not his niece. He also warns Jaime on the impulsiveness of the Dornish people, and asks if Jaime set Tyrion free. Jaime claims it was Varys. Bronn asks Jaime to give Tyrion his regards should he see him again, but Jaime responds by saying that if he ever sees Tyrion again, he will kill him in revenge for their father. 

Jaime uses his metal hand to stop a blade. 

Not long after, Jaime and Bronn arrive in Dorne, where Bronn narrowly saves Jaime from being poisoned by a viper. As they make their way towards Dorne, they are discovered by Dornish soldiers and a fight ensues. Jaime personally duels one of the soldiers and holds his own with his left hand until he is disarmed. The man moves in to kill Jaime, who catches the blade in his metal hand and uses the distraction to get his sword and finish his opponent. Over Bronn's protests, Jaime insists that they bury the soldiers in order to avoid suspicions. Unbeknownst to either, Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes are aware that Jaime is coming for Myrcella. 

Jaime being threatened at the point Areo's longaxe. 

Jaime and Bronn, disguised as Dornish soldiers, finally reach the Water Gardens and find Myrcella with Trystane Martell. Myrcella is understandably surprised to see her alleged uncle in Dorne, but as Jaime attempts to persuade his daughter to flee with him, they are attacked by the Sand Snakes, who plan to kill Myrcella in order to force Doran Martell into war with the Lannisters for Oberyn Martell's death. Jaime and Bronn fight with the Sand Snakes, with Jaime focused on Obara Sand, until Doran's bodyguard, Areo Hotah appears with a handful of Martell guards and orders them to stand down. Jaime is briefly mocked by Areo for his missing hand before he drops his weapon, and he, Bronn, the Sand Snakes and Ellaria Sand are all arrested. 

Jaime is locked up in a bedroom-like cell. Areo brings Myrcella to visit him. Jaime tells her that the situation has grown dangerous and he needs to take Myrcella back to King's Landing, though he fails to mention that it is because the Dornishmen seek to use her as a way to gain revenge for Oberyn. She soundly rejects his advice and claims she wants to stay in Dorne and marry Trystane before leaving him alone. 

Jaime is received in Prince Doran Martell's solar. 

Later, Jaime is escorted into the main apartments of the Water Gardens by Areo Hotah, to be received by Prince Doran Martell in his solar, along with Ellaria Sand, Doran's son Trystane Martell, and Jaime's "niece" Myrcella Baratheon. Doran asks Jaime why he has snuck in to Dorne to abduct Myrcella back to King's Landing. He says he feared for her safety, but when Doran insists why he didn't just send a letter by messenger-raven, he explains that they received a threatening message: Myrcella's Lannister lion pendant jammed in the mouth of dead viper. Jaime asks if Doran intends to behead him, but he says that he will not, because he wishes to avoid war. Doran insists that for the alliance between the Iron Throne and Dorne to continue, the engagement of Trystane and Myrcella must stand, and Trystane will simply take his uncle Oberyn's place on the Small Council. Jaime finds Doran's request entirely reasonable, and Myrcella is ecstatic that she will not be separated from Trystane, so Jaime agrees. 

Jaime embraces Myrcella as his daughter moments before her unexpected death. 

Jaime, Bronn, Myrcella and Trystane say their farewells to the Martells to return to King's Landing. Upon saying goodbye, Ellaria Sand kisses Myrcella on the lips. Aboard the ship, Myrcella and Jaime talk about Cersei. Jaime begins to come clean to Myrcella, awkwardly telling her that one cannot choose who he/she love. Myrcella then reveals that she knows that Jaime is her real father, and that she is glad that he is, and the two embrace. However, Myrcella's nose starts to bleed and she collapses and dies in Jaime's arms. Season 6 

Jamie finally returns to King's Landing, devastated over the loss of Myrcella. He subsequently consoles Cersei and mourns with Tommen in the Sept of Baelor. Personality 

At first glance, outsiders perceive Jaime to be arrogant, disdainful, and sarcastic. To a large extent he is arrogant about his own abilities, but not without cause: even his enemies admit that he is arguably the greatest living swordsman in Westeros. Jaime's loss of his sword-hand did much to humble him, given that in many ways he was that hand, given how much his self-identity depended on his skills with a sword. Jaime does not mock others over minor insults the way Cersei does, and he can muster up polite behavior, but he is usually very blunt. Much like his brother Tyrion, he typically just says what he is thinking, and has no reservations about mocking those he perceives as incompetent. 

Tywin Lannister has raised Jaime and Cersei with the principle of ruthlessness as a virtue. Yet even though Jaime Lannister often behaves unapologetically amoral, in his own warped way, Jaime is the only member of the core Lannister family (Tywin and his three children) aside from Tyrion who shows any hint of honor or principles. This is largely based on his arrogance and pride at being a member of the Kingsguard. Jaime became extremely disillusioned with ideals of honor and loyalty when he saw firsthand the atrocities committed by the Mad King, how other "honorable" members of the Kingsguard stood by and did nothing while King Aerys had people burned alive for imagined insults, because they felt bound by vows of faith and fealty. A key difference between Cersei and Jaime is that Cersei honestly believes, in her skewed view of the world, that she is "good", Joffrey is a great king, and all of her enemies are "evil" people trying to destroy her and her children. In contrast, Jaime does not maintain any pretense of being a "good" or honorable man, as he has become apathetic to such concerns. However, he still refused to kill Ned Stark when their duel ended abruptly, since Ned was incapacitated by an opportunistic guard rather than Jaime himself. 

Moreover, Jaime isn't a very politically ambitious man, much to Cersei's&nbsp;annoyance, and often turns down her&nbsp;frequent urgings that he should try to become Hand of the King. Political maneuvering is not his way, and he sees himself foremost as a soldier who when confronted with a problem takes out his sword and cuts its head off. 

Jaime is the only member of Tyrion's immediate family who ever treated him with respect or kindness. In fact, he admires Tyrion's intellect and his ability to tell off those who insult him. Jaime never approved of Tywin and Cersei's long history of abuse towards Tyrion, and has always treated him like a brother. Indeed, Jaime is the only member of the core Lannister family who has a reasonably good relationship with all of the others. Among the three siblings, Cersei and Tyrion can't stand each other, but they both like Jaime (both Cersei and Tyrion have acknowledged the only reason they haven't gone out of their way to seriously harm or kill each other is because Jaime would never forgive them if they did). However, in recent times, Jaime's good relationship with Tyrion seems to have died with their father, and Jaime has vowed to kill Tyrion the next time they meet. His relationship with Cersei has also deteriorated in the aftermath of Tywin's death since it was Jaime who set Tyrion free and inadvertently allowed him to kill their father. 

Tywin is a stern man feared and resented by all of his children, ignoring Cersei for her gender and scorning Tyrion for both his stature and killing his wife in childbirth. However, Jaime is on reasonably good terms with Tywin - not so much that he is "proud" of Jaime so much as he has the "least shame" for him compared to his brother and sister. Even so, Tywin is upset that Jaime willingly joined the Kingsguard, as while it is considered the highest honor for a knight, its members give up the rights to marry or inherit lands, meaning that Jaime cannot be Tywin's heir. Jaime wasn't in a position to act as a father to his biological children with Cersei, though he is generally supportive of Tommen and Myrcella. However, in sharp contrast with Cersei, Jaime isn't particularly fond of Joffrey, nor will he defend his actions the way Cersei does. He shows obvious joy when Myrcella reveals her knowledge that Jaime is her father and is happy about it, and embraces her, since this is the first time he has ever been able to show his feelings as a father to his children. He is equally saddened when Myrcella dies in his arms moments later. 

Jaime's attitude towards violence is also complex: he threw Bran Stark out a tower window to kill him, but later saved Brienne twice (from being raped, then fed to a bear) from Locke's soldiers. The difference seems to be that after witnessing the depravations of the Mad King, needless violence and brutality deeply offend Jaime, though if he decides that violence and murder are absolutely necessary he will ruthlessly carry it out himself. He threw Bran out of a window because had the boy reported that he saw the incest between Jaime and his sister, Cersei, the woman he loved, and all of their children would be executed, so he felt he had no choice. Appearances Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Image Gallery Promotional image of Jaime Lannister in Season 1 Ser Jaime Lannister of the Kingsguard in "Winter is Coming". Jaime and Cersei in the throne room in "Winter is Coming." Jaime arriving at Winterfell in "Winter is Coming." Promotional image of Jaime and Jon Snow in the "The Kingsroad." Jaime stabs Jory through the eye in "The Wolf and the Lion". Jaime dueling with Eddard in "The Wolf and the Lion." Tywin Lannister telling Jaime about the importance of legacy in "You Win or You Die". Entertainment Weekly (EW) photo of Nikolaj Coster-Waldau in costume as Jaime. EW photo of Coster-Waldau in costume as Jaime. Magazine photo of the Game of Thrones cast. TV Guide photo shoot, Season 3. Jaime leaves Harrenhal in a "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" Jaime in "Mhysa". Brienne holds Jaime. Jaime in Season 4 promotional image. Jaime in Season 4 promotional image. Jaime in a Dornish Palace Jaime Season 5, before leaving for Dorne. Jaime in "Sons of the Harpy". Jaime devastated by his daughter's death in "Mother's Mercy". Add a photo to this gallery Family tree &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tytos Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; Jeyne Lannister 
née Marbrand 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tywin Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; Joanna Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Kevan Lannister &nbsp; Dorna Lannister 
née Swyft &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Robert Baratheon 
Deceased &nbsp; Cersei Lannister &nbsp; Jaime Lannister &nbsp; Tysha &nbsp; Tyrion Lannister &nbsp; Sansa Stark &nbsp; Lancel Lannister &nbsp; Martyn Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; Willem Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Unnamed son 
Died in infancy &nbsp; 

Joffrey Baratheon 
 Deceased &nbsp; Margaery Tyrell &nbsp; 

Myrcella Baratheon 
 Deceased &nbsp; Trystane Martell &nbsp; Tommen Baratheon &nbsp; Margaery Tyrell &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Quotes Spoken by Jaime "The things I do for love." ―Jaime as he pushes ten-year-old Bran Stark out a window.[src] "It's a strange thing, the first time you cut a man. You realize we're nothing but sacks of meat and blood and some bone to keep it all standing." ―Jaime to Jon Snow[src] "People have been swinging at me for years and they always seem to miss." ―Jaime to Eddard Stark[src] "I think we can outfox a ten year old." ―Jaime to Cersei[src] "The boy won't talk. And if he does, I'll kill him, Ned Stark, the king, the whole bloody lot of them until you and I are the only people left in this world." ―Jaime to Cersei Lannister[src] Jaime Lannister: "So many vows. They make you swear and swear. Defend the King, obey the King, obey your father, protect the innocent, defend the weak. But what if your father despises the King? What if the King massacres the innocent? It's too much. No matter what you do, you're forsaking one vow or another. Where did you find this beast?" Catelyn Stark: "She is a truer knight than you will ever be, Kingslayer." Jaime Lannister: "Kingslayer. And what a king he was! Here's to Aerys Targaryen, the second of his name, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, Protector of the Realm, and to the sword I shoved in his back!" — Jaime to Catelyn Stark[src] Jaime Lannister: "You swore a solemn vow, remember? You're supposed to get me to King's Landing in one piece. [Nods to his stump] Not going so well, is it? No wonder Renly died with you guarding him. [Brienne rises from the bath in anger] That was unworthy. Forgive me. You protected me better than most." Brienne of Tarth: "Don't you mock me." Jaime Lannister: "I'm apologizing. I'm sick of fighting. Let's call a truce." Brienne of Tarth: "You need trust to have a truce." Jaime Lannister: "I trust you." — Jaime and Brienne of Tarth[src] "There it is. There's the look. I've seen it for 17 years on face after face. You all despise me. Kingslayer. Oathbreaker. A man without honor." ―Jaime to Brienne of Tarth[src] "He loved to watch people burn, the way their skin blackened and blistered and melted off their bones. He burned lords he didn't like. He burned Hands who disobeyed him. He burned anyone who was against him. Before long, half the country was against him." ―Jaime talks about the Mad King.[src] "Once again, I came to the king, begging him to surrender. He told me to... bring him my father's head. Then he... turned to his pyromancer. 'Burn them all,' he said. 'Burn them in their homes. Burn them in their beds.' Tell me, if your precious Renly commanded you to kill your own father and stand by while thousands of men, women, and children burned alive, would you have done it? Would you have kept your oath then? First, I killed the pyromancer. And then when the king turned to flee, I drove my sword into his back. 'Burn them all,' he kept saying. 'Burn them all.' I don't think he expected to die. He... he meant to... burn with the rest of us and rise again, reborn as a dragon to turn his enemies to ash. I slit his throat to make sure that didn't happen. That's where Ned Stark found me." ―Jaime explains his reasons for killing the Mad King to Brienne of Tarth.[src] Brienne of Tarth: "If this is true, why didn't you tell anyone? Why didn't you tell Lord Stark?" Jaime Lannister: "Stark? You think the honorable Ned Stark wanted to hear my side? He judged me guilty the moment he set eyes on me. By what right does the wolf judge the lion? By what right?" — Jaime to Brienne of Tarth[src] "Tell Robb Stark I'm sorry I couldn't make his uncle's wedding. The Lannisters send their regards." ―Jaime to Roose Bolton.[src] "I murdered people so I could be here with you!" ―Jaime to Cersei Lannister[src] "You're a hateful woman, why have the gods condemned me to love a hateful woman?" ―Jaime to Cersei Lannister[src] "Do you know the last order the Mad King gave me? To bring him your head! I saved your life so you can murder my brother?" ―Jaime to Tywin Lannister[src] Tyrion Lannister: "There's no kind of killing that doesn't have its own word." Jaime Lannister: "Cousins." — Jaime alludes to his killing of Alton Lannister.[src] "He murdered my father. If I ever see him, I'll split him in two; then I'll give him your regards." ―Jaime to Bronn[src] "We don't choose whom we love." ―Jaime to Myrcella Baratheon[src] Spoken about Jaime "Ser Jaime Lannister. Knighted and named to the Kingsguard in his sixteenth year. At the Sack of King's Landing, murdered his King, Aerys the Second. Pardoned by Robert Baratheon; thereafter known as the Kingslayer." ―Brienne of Tarth reads from The Book of Brothers.[src] Behind the scenes On the Season 4 Blu-ray, Jaime narrates the Histories &amp; Lore video "The Kingsguard". In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jaime Lannister is described as extremely handsome with bright green eyes and hair like spun gold. The books do not mention him suffering from dyslexia. He is a prodigious warrior. 

At age of eleven, Jaime was sent to Crakehall, and served as a squire for old Lord Sumner Crakehall for four years (Jaime never served as a squire for Barristan Selmy). While on an errand for Crakehall, Jaime visited Riverrun and at dinner every night Hoster Tully seated him next to his daughter Lysa; Lords Tywin and Hoster were in talks to marry them. However, Jaime was more interested in talking to her famous uncle, Ser Brynden Tully, a hero of his, and hearing of his exploits in the War of the Ninepenny Kings. 

Two years later, while still a squire, Jaime won his first tourney melee. When he was fifteen, he and his master accompanied Ser Arthur Dayne and Ser Barristan Selmy in their campaign against the Kingswood Brotherhood. Jaime fought bravely against the Smiling Knight, although was not the one to kill him, and saved the life of Lord Crakehall from another of the outlaws. As a reward, Jaime was knighted by Arthur Dayne on the battlefield. 

A Kingsguard berth became vacant with the death of Ser Harland Grandison. With Jaime's approval, Cersei schemed to have him chosen, to prevent his proposed marriage to Lysa Tully, and so they could be in the capital together. Jaime was duly appointed to the Kingsguard by King Aerys II Targaryen. At fifteen, he was the youngest Kingsguard member in history. He served alongside such great and vaunted warriors as Lord Commander Gerold Hightower, Barristan Selmy and Ser Arthur Dayne, the legendary Sword of the Morning. Jaime's appointment infuriated his father, Tywin Lannister, as the Kingsguard take vows to serve for life, never marry, and give up the right to hold lands and titles. This meant Jaime was no longer his heir, the honor of which instead fell to Tywin's misshapen and hated youngest son, Tyrion, whose dwarfism made him unfit in his father's eyes to inherit Casterly Rock. It was one of a series of slights made against Tywin by the King. Soon afterwards he resigned as Hand of the King and returned to Casterly Rock, taking Cersei with him, thus unwittingly foiling her and Jaime's plan. 

Jaime eventually realized that his appointment to the Kingsguard was not meant to honor him but to spite his father, whom Aerys was insanely jealous of, to deprive him of his heir and use him as a hostage for Tywin's good behavior, which soured the honor. Jaime rapidly became disillusioned with his new position, as he was forced to watch the various atrocities Aerys committed, forced by his vow to stand by and do nothing. 

At the climax of Robert's Rebellion, when the Lannister armies stormed King's Landing, Jaime betrayed his king by murdering him at the foot of the Iron Throne&nbsp;itself. He attacked Aerys on the steps of the Iron Throne, and cut the Mad King's throat rather than stabbing him in the back as in the TV Series. Robert Baratheon forgave Jaime, reasoning that someone had to kill Aerys, and he was just happy that the Lannisters were the ones who got their hands dirty instead of himself. Eddard Stark believed that Jaime should have faced justice for killing Aerys, or at least stripped of his position on the Kingsguard and made to take the black, but Robert didn't want to upset his crucial alliance with Jaime's father Tywin, his own new father-in-law. Jaime is stuck in an ironic situation: Targaryen loyalists despise him for personally killing the last Targaryen king, but even those who joined Robert in rebellion (and wished Aerys dead) often question why he didn't kill Aerys sooner, preventing the loss of life that happened in the war. A small number of people don't even mind what Jaime did or when he did it, but place so much respect on honor and justice that they feel his breach of his Kingsguard vows to defend the king are a sacrilege that can never be forgiven. For his part, Jaime points out that Aerys was a madman who roasted women and babies on spits because the voices in his head told him they were plotting against him, and he has no regrets about killing the Mad King. 

Tywin's sister Genna remarks that her nephew Jaime isn't really like his father. Instead, she says Jaime has a combination of the qualities of Tywin's three younger brothers: Tygett's martial prowess, Gerion's sharp sense of humor, and Kevan's sense of honor. Genna insists that Tyrion is the son who inherited Tywin's brilliance and is most like his father, which she even told Tywin once, after which he didn't speak to her for six months. 

The early sections of the book A Game of Thrones play to the suspicion that Jaime wants to seize the throne himself, but this is later shown to be a red herring. Also, Robert names him Warden of the East despite not being an Arryn or having any relation to the noble houses of the Vale. 

After Jaime is captured in the Battle of the Whispering Wood, he is held at Riverrun, not taken along with Robb's army, though Robb only leaves Riverrun some time later so he can consolidate his forces. No scenes between Jaime and Robb are depicted in the books (as neither is a POV character at this point), though it is entirely plausible that the scene with Robb in Jaime's cell in the Season 2 premiere could have happened in the books, just "off screen", as Robb doesn't immediately leave Riverrun. At first, Jaime is held in comfortable imprisonment in a tower of Riverrun, but after a failed escape attempt in which he manages to kill three guards before being subdued, he is chained up in the dungeon. 

The TV series' depiction of an escape attempt by Jaime, during which he kills Torrhen Karstark, is a very loose adaptation of events in the books. In the TV version, Jaime kills Torrhen because he was guarding his cell, which causes Lord Rickard Karstark to become enraged and demand revenge, to the point that Catelyn releases Jaime (in promise of her daughters' safe return from King's Landing) because she fears he won't live out the night. In the books, Jaime killed Rickard's sons Torrhen and Eddard Karstark at the Battle of the Whispering Wood (Eddard Karstark's death is apparently unchanged in the TV version). While Lord Karstark was certainly upset in the books, he wasn't going to go disobey Robb's direct command as his liege-lord that Jaime must remain unharmed (at least because he thought they'd execute him eventually). Catelyn's decision to exchange Jaime as a prisoner isn't rushed by pressure from within the Stark camp, but is rather due to her grief at hearing the (false) report that Bran and Rickon have been killed by Theon at Winterfell. Furthermore, she had recently been told by Cleos Frey that he only saw Sansa when he visited King's Landing, which makes Catelyn wonder if Arya is dead too. Believing (somewhat justifiably) that even holding Jaime as prisoner is no guarantee that the crazed Joffrey won't have her daughters killed on a whim, Catelyn decides that keeping her remaining children safe is what matters most, so she releases Jaime, sending him under escort by Brienne to King's Landing. Rickard Karstark only truly becomes enraged after&nbsp;Catelyn releases Jaime, because he never thought they'd release the killer of his sons, as well as because it is a very poor exchange to trade a prominent Lannister warrior for two girls. The TV series may have moved Torrhen's death around to make it closer to Jaime's release, instead of just mentioning that Jaime killed Torrhen at the end of Season 1 and expecting the audience to remember this over a season later. 

Similarly, "Alton Lannister" is actually a renamed version the character Cleos Frey in the books. Cleos' father is a Frey but his mother is a Lannister, and his name may have been changed because of concerns that the audience would be confused as the Freys are on Robb's side. Jaime does not kill him in the books to create a diversion to distract his guards, this is an invention of the TV series. Intead, Cleos is sent back to King's Landing again along with Brienne and Jaime, but is killed by outlaws along the way. 

Jaime doesn't appear during virtually all of the second novel, A Clash of Kings, emphasizing that he is a prisoner of the Starks and in isolation. He only appears near the end during one chapter when Catelyn Stark visits him in his cell to release him. Dialogue from this scene in the books was split in two, so that some of it is used in the scene where she releases him late in Season 2, while parts of it were moved back to a separate meeting between Catelyn and Jaime in the Season 1 finale (it was just one long meeting in the book). During their conversation in the book, Jaime bluntly admitted that he and Cersei are lovers; that he is the father of Cersei's kids; that he pushed Bran from the window. Jaime denied any connection to the Catspaw assassin, and revealed to Catelyn that the dagger never belonged to Tyrion, who could not have lost it to Littlefinger when Jaime was unhorsed by Loras Tyrell (as Littlefinger claimed), because Tyrion always bet on Jaime. Catelyn realized that Jaime was telling her the truth. Jaime also told her in detail how the Mad King executed Ned's father and brother. Most of the conversation was omitted from the TV series. 

Jaime then comes back to the forefront of the narrative in the third novel, A Storm of Swords, even becoming a POV character, but while this can be done in a book, the TV series producers felt that it would be odd for one of the main cast members to disappear for an entire season (similarly, Daenerys Targaryen doesn't appear that much in the second book either, so the TV show padded out her storyline in Qarth). This was partially made up for by showing more events that happened to Jaime "off screen", such as Robb interrogating him (in the season premiere) and actually depicting his failed escape attempt. Their primary solution, however, was to move ahead some of Jaime's storyline from the third book to late Season 2: Jaime is only released from captivity at the very end of the second book (as a cliffhanger), thus all of Jaime's scenes with Brienne leading him back to King's Landing are actually from the beginning of the third book. TV producers Benioff and Weiss insisted that they don't see each season as being required to neatly adapt each book matched to one season, but instead they are trying to adapt the story as a whole, so parts from other books will spill into other seasons as they are required, i.e. pointing out that the Jaime/Brienne scenes in late Season 2 aren't fabrications of the TV series, just moving up some scenes that actually occurred in the next book. 

In "Kissed by Fire" Jaime reveals his motivation for assassinating the Mad King to Brienne. In corresponding book scene, Jaime also says that he didn't tell Ned Stark his version of what happened because he knew Lord Stark wouldn't believe him anyway (and even if Ned believed - it wouldn't make any difference because the only thing mattered to Ned was that Jaime acted dishonorably regardless of the reason that made him kill Aerys), but he also goes on to explain to Brienne that the Kingsguard are sworn to keep the king's secrets, and he didn't want to be seen as breaking even more of his vows to King Aerys, even after his death. When Brienne calls for help for the Kingslayer, Jaime merely thinks to himself "Jaime. My name is Jaime.", instead of saying it out loud (though Bryan Cogman explained that Jaime is losing consciousness and just whimpering this to himself, not to Brienne). 

Jaime and Brienne do not return to King's Landing in time for Joffrey's wedding. They are still en route back to the capital when they learn of Joffrey's death. Jaime is not particularly upset by the news and reflects that Joffrey was little more to him than "a squirt of seed". At Cersei's insistence, he had kept his distance from their children and never grew too close to them, so as not to arouse suspicion about their true paternity. He decides that, if he had the choice, he would rather have his sword hand than his son back, since he and Cersei can always make another son. 

When Jaime releases Tyrion from his cell on the eve of his execution for killing Joffrey, it is the first time the brothers have spoken since they were at Winterfell together. Jaime confesses that he is saving his younger brother partly out of guilt. He reveals that Tysha, Tyrion's first wife, was not a whore. Jaime did not pay her to sleep with Tyrion and he did not arrange for he and Tyrion to rescue her from a gang of rapists. She was in fact all that she appeared to be, a humble crofter's daughter whom they only met by chance on the road. Jaime says their father forced him to tell Tyrion that she was a whore to teach him a lesson. Enraged by this revelation, Tyrion slaps Jaime so hard it knocks him backwards. Out of spite, he lies that he really did kill Joffrey, and also informs Jaime that Cersei has been sleeping with Lancel Lannister and Osmund Kettleblack. Tyrion leaves, vowing to return and take revenge on his family. Tyrion's revelation severely damages Jaime's relationship with Cersei. After Tywin is killed, Cersei offers Jaime to become the new Hand of the King, but he outright refuses. 

To help improve his left-handed swordsmanship, Jaime first enlists his old friend Ser Addam Marbrand to spar with him. Fearing that Ser Addam could get drunk and let slip the truth about his diminished skills, Jaime then turns to Ser Ilyn Payne, reasoning that, being unable to speak or write, Payne is not likely to tell anyone. He never trains with Bronn, as portrayed in the TV series, nor does he travel to Dorne to rescue Myrcella from vengeful Martells. Cersei instead sends him to the Riverlands to end the siege and persuade Brynden Tully to surrender Riverrun to the Frey garrison in exchange for Edmure Tully's safety. Abilities 

By the time of the War of the Five Kings, Jaime is one of the most skilled and dangerous warriors in all of Westeros, ranking alongside Gregor Clegane, Loras Tyrell, and Barristan Selmy as arguably the best swordsman on the entire continent. Gregor's prowess relies more on his immense strength than on skill, while Barristan is self-admittedly not as young and quick as he used to be. Loras is not quite as experienced as Jaime yet, but is one of the few knights who has on rare occasion actually managed to knock Jaime off his horse during a joust. Jaime, meanwhile, is at the peak of both youth and experience, and even his enemies often consider him to be the most skilled living warrior in Westeros, albeit not the most honorable one. During the Battle of the Whispering Wood, even with his army ambushed and wiped out, Jaime managed to single-handedly carve a path through the Stark army until he reached Robb Stark, and almost managed to kill Robb before he was knocked unconscious. This short list is supported in the TV series in "The Prince of Winterfell", when Jaime boasts to Brienne of Tarth that he thinks there are only three men in Westeros who might have even a chance of beating him in combat. See also Jaime Lannister on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) References ↑ Jaime is Cersei's twin, and thus the same age as her. Tyrion stated in "The Prince of Winterfell" that Cersei became Queen when she was 19, at the end of Robert's Rebellion, and 17 years passed between the end of the war and Season 1. This makes Cersei 36 in Season 1 and 39 in Season 4. In the Season 4 premiere, Jaime is said to be "40", but characters might have been rounding. Some contradictory statements have been made about Cersei's age: see here for more information. ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" ↑ 3.0 3.1 "Kissed by Fire" ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Baratheon of King's Landing - Jaime Lannister entry ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Baratheon of King's Landing - Cersei Baratheon entry ↑ 7.0 7.1 "Winter is Coming" ↑ 8.0 8.1 "The Kingsroad" ↑ "Lord Snow" ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "Fire and Blood" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ 17.0 17.1 "A Man Without Honor" ↑ 18.0 18.1 "The Prince of Winterfell" ↑ "Valar Morghulis" ↑ "Dark Wings, Dark Words" ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "The Climb" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair (episode)" ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ "Mhysa" ↑ 27.0 27.1 "Two Swords" ↑ "The Lion and the Rose" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ 30.0 30.1 "Oathkeeper" ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ "The Laws of Gods and Men" ↑ "Mockingbird" ↑ The Mountain and the Viper ↑ "The Children" ↑ 36.0 36.1 "The Wars to Come" ↑ "The House of Black and White" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy (episode)" ↑ "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" ↑ "The Gift (episode)" ↑ "The Dance of Dragons" ↑ "Mother's Mercy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Aerys II's Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Gerold Hightower Members: 

Ser Arthur Dayne · Ser Oswell Whent · Ser Barristan Selmy · Prince Lewyn Martell · Ser Jonothor Darry · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gwayne Gaunt 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jaime_Lannister?oldid=232470"