The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Jaremy Rykker Season(s) 1 Appeared in "You Win or You Die" Titles Ranger 
Ser Status Alive Allegiance The Night's Watch (by oath) 
House Rykker (by birth) Portrayed by Jeffrey O'Brien "Rangers, with me!" ―Jaremy to the new Rangers[src] 

Jaremy Rykker is a minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Jeffrey O'Brien and only appears in "You Win or You Die." Ser Jaremy Rykker is an officer in the rangers of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Ser Jaremy Rykker is an officer in the rangers of the Night's Watch and a member of House Rykker. He is acting First Ranger when Benjen Stark is away from the Wall. Season 1Edit 

Ser Jaremy attends the induction of new recruits into the Night's Watch. He is the acting first ranger in the absence of Benjen Stark and summons the recruits assigned to the rangers after the Lord Commander's speech. He leads an escort for Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly when they go north of the Wall to take their vows in the Godswood. He embraces his newly sworn brothers after they take their vows. They discover the bodies of rangers Othor and Jafer Flowers near the Godswood and return them to Castle Black. The dead men had accompanied Benjen on his scouting mission beyond the Wall. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Jaremy is an officer in the rangers of the Night's Watch. Ser Jaremy attends the officers meeting with Tyrion Lannister and recalls being sent to the Wall by Tywin Lannister after fighting for House Targaryen in the Sack of King's Landing during Robert's Rebellion. It is Ser Jaremy rather than Ser Alliser who challenges Sam about his decision to take his vows in the Godswood. He is not named as being part of the escort to the Godswood. He identifies the bodies when they are returned to Castle Black. 

Ser Jaremy and four other men were killed by the wight Jafer Flowers. Jaremy managed to hack the wight's head off, but was killed when the headless corpse pulled his own dagger from its sheath and buried it in his bowels. 

Give that Ser Jaremy is not shown to be killed in the episode, it is possible that he simply wasn't killed in the TV continuity. See alsoEdit Jaremy Rykker on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "You Win or You Die" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jaremy_Rykker?oldid=229572"