Jhiqui Season(s) 1 Appeared in "The Kingsroad" Status Uncertain Origin The Dothraki sea Allegiance Drogo's khalasar Religion Great Stallion Portrayed by Sarita Piotrowski "It is known." ―Jhiqui[src] 

Jhiqui is a minor character in the first season. She is played by guest star Sarita Piotrowski and only appears in "The Kingsroad." Jhiqui is a young Dothraki woman who is given to Daenerys Targaryen as a handmaiden, along with Irri and Doreah. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Jhiqui is a Dothraki woman in Drogo's khalasar. Season 1Edit 

Jhiqui, Irri, and Doreah tend to Daenerys in her tent. Jhiqui doesn't say much, and comes across as silent and obedient. However she does side with Irri in saying that the moon is a goddess, and not a giant dragon egg as Doreah claims. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Behind the scenesEdit 

Jhiqui has only appeared in a single episode. It is not clear if she remained loyal to Daenerys following the death of Drogo, though if she did it is unlikely she survived long as Daenery's entire remaining khalasar is shown on camera in "Garden of Bones" and she is not present. Nevertheless, a Dothraki handmaiden is shown in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair", though it is unknown is she's meant to represent Jhiqui. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jhiqui is a member of a khalasar defeated in battle by Khal Drogo's. She was enslaved and later given to Daenerys to teach her the Dothraki language. 

In the books, Jhiqui is frequently seen with Irri, both in service to Daenerys. In the TV series, however, she appears only briefly in one scene. Thus, it is unclear of the TV version of Jhiqui remains in Daenerys' khalassar or was among those who abandoned her after Drogo's death. The TV series condensed most of her role with that of Irri. See alsoEdit Jhiqui on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Kingsroad" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Targaryen Lord: Queen Daenerys Targaryen Heir: None Seat: (Exiled) Lands: Exiled, currently holds Meereen in Slaver's Bay Title(s): Queen of Meereen · Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea · Queen of Qarth· Queen of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men (claimant) · Lady Regnant of the Seven Kingdoms (claimant) · Protector of the Realm (claimant) Ancestors: Aegon I, the Conqueror · Visenya · Rhaenys · Aenys I · Maegor I, the Cruel · Jaehaerys, the Concilliator · Viserys I · Daemon · Rhaenyra · Aegon II · Aemond · Aegon III · Daeron I, the Young Dragon · Baelor the Blessed · Viserys II · Aegon IV, the Unworthy · Naerys · Aemon the Dragonknight · Daena the Defiant · Rhaena · Elaena · Daeron II, the Good · Daenerys Martell · Myriah Martell · Daemon Blackfyre · Brynden Rivers · Aegor Rivers · Shiera Seastar · Baelor Breakspear · Aerys I · Aelinor · Rhaegel · Maekar I · Aerion Brightflame · Aegon V, the Unlikely · Duncan the Small · Daeron Deceased members: Aerys II, the Mad · Rhaella Targaryen · Rhaegar Targaryen · Elia Martell · Rhaenys Targaryen · Aegon Targaryen · Viserys Targaryen · Drogo · Rhaego · Aemon Targaryen Household: Ser Jorah Mormont · Tyrion Lannister · {Ser Barristan Selmy} · {Rakharo} · Kovarro · Aggo · {Irri} · {Doreah} · Jhiqui · Malakho · Missandei · Grey Worm · Daario Naharis · {Mossador} · Malcolm Branfield · Croft Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jhiqui?oldid=228540"