Jonos Bracken Season(s) 1 Appeared in "Fire and Blood" Mentioned in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Titles Lord of Stone Hedge Status Alive Origin Stone Hedge Allegiance House Bracken Family Wyllis Bracken - kinsman Portrayed by Gerry O'Brien "The proper course is clear: pledge fealty to King Renly and move south to join our forces with his." ―Jonos Bracken[src] 

Jonos Bracken is a minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Gerry O'Brien and only appears in "Fire and Blood." He is the Lord of Stone Hedge and head of House Bracken. He is fighting for his liege lord Hoster Tully and King Robb Stark in the War of the Five Kings. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Jonos Bracken is the Lord of Stone Hedge and head of House Bracken, a vassal family of House Tully of Riverrun. He is considered a loyal bannerman to Lord Hoster Tully. Season 1Edit 

Kurleket, a man-at-arms sworn to Lord Jonos, is among the men Catelyn Stark summons to help her apprehend Tyrion Lannister at the Inn at the Crossroads. 

Lord Jonos Bracken, having presumably joined Robb Stark's army after the victory at the Battle of the Whispering Wood, advocates joining forces with Renly Baratheon. Robb points out that Renly is the late King Robert's youngest brother and he cannot become king before Stannis. Bracken asks if Robb means to join Stannis instead. Jon Umber then suggests they become independent altogether, and declares Robb as the King in the North. Bracken and the other lords present, even the river lords who have never been ruled from Winterfell, draw their swords and swear fealty to Robb as the King in the North. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Jonos Bracken is the ruling lord of House Bracken and its castle, Stone Hedge. He is a loyal bannerman to Lord Hoster. However, he has an enmity towards House Blackwood, part of an old feud going back a thousand years and which continues to cause unrest in the Riverlands. 

Lord Jonos has fathered five daughters: Barbara, Jayne, Catelyn, Bess, and Alysanne, but no trueborn sons, leading some to question his masculinity. Although he claims Harry Rivers - "The Bastard of Bracken" - as his natural born son, there are those who doubt whether Jonos truly sired the boy, as Harry is fair haired and handsome, and Jonos is neither. See alsoEdit Jonos Bracken on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "Fire and Blood" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Bracken Lord: Lord Jonos Bracken Heir: Seat: Stone Hedge Lands: The Riverlands Title(s): Lord of Stone Hedge Ancestors: Bethany Bracken Current members: Wyllis Bracken Household: {Kurleket} Overlord: House Tully Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jonos_Bracken?oldid=227657"