Jonothor Darry Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles Ser Status Deceased Allegiance Kingsguard 
House Darry Family {Willem Darry} - brother 

Jonothor Darry is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is not expected to appear in the series, being long dead by the time it starts. Ser Jonothor Darry was a knight of House Darry and a member of the Kingsguard during the reign of Aerys II Targaryen. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Ser Jonothor Darry was a renowned knight and a legendary member of the Kingsguard of the Mad King Aerys II Targaryen. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels Jonothor Darry's history is the same. Just like most of the other members of the Kingsguard at the time, he too was fiercely loyal to his oaths, fighting for the crown during Robert's Rebellion. 

He was present at the aftermath of the Battle of the Bells to rally the remaining royal forces and later on lead the army of the royalists to the Battle of the Trident, alongside Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, Prince Lewyn Martell and Ser Barristan Selmy. He died at the Trident fighting until the end for his cause. 

Although Jaime Lannister remembers him as a earnest and honorable man, he did nothing against the atrocities committed by the Mad King, not even intervening when the King raped Queen Rhaella. He stated that they were sworn to protect the royal family, except from the King. 

He was the brother of Ser Willem Darry, another Targaryen loyalist, who would later on smuggle the surviving Targaryen children away to the Free Cities. See alsoEdit Jonothor Darry on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Aerys II's Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Gerold Hightower Members: 

Ser Arthur Dayne · Ser Oswell Whent · Ser Barristan Selmy · Prince Lewyn Martell · Ser Jonothor Darry · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gwayne Gaunt Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Jonothor_Darry?oldid=229897"