The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Joramun Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "The Night's Watch (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles King-Beyond-the-Wall Status Deceased Origin Beyond the Wall Allegiance Free Folk Culture Free Folk "Lucky for you southerners, the Free Folk rallied to a King-Beyond-the-Wall, as we will when need be." ―Ygritte[src] 

Joramun is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He was a legendary King-Beyond-the-Wall. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

According to legend, Joramun gathered the Free Folk to battle the Night's King, who had made the Night's Watch into his personal army. He joined forces with the Stark King of Winter Brandon the Breaker and together they brought down the Night's King. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Joramun is a legendary King-Beyond-the-Wall who not only fought the Night's King, but also blew the Horn of Winter to wake giants from the earth. According to legend, the Horn is capable of bringing the Wall down. 

Given that the Night's King was only the thirteenth Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, he and Joramun lived relatively soon after the Wall was completed - which may imply that Joramun was the very first King-Beyond-the-Wall, though this has not been confirmed. 

When Jon Snow comes to parley with Mance Rayder (actually to kill him), Mance shows him a huge horn, claiming it is the legendary Horn of Winter. He tells Jon to deliver an ultimatum to Castle Black: unless the wildlings are allowed to pass the Wall within three days, he will blow the horn and destroy the Wall. The horn is destroyed while Mance is executed. However, later Tormund tells Jon that the destroyed horn was a fake; Mance has never found the true horn. See alsoEdit Joramun on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Night's Watch (Histories &amp; Lore)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Kings-Beyond-the-Wall Historical: 

Joramun · Gendel &amp; Gorne · The Horned Lord · Raymun Redbeard Current: 

Mance Rayder v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Legendary Figures Arson Iceaxe · Artys Arryn · Azor Ahai &amp; Nissa Nissa · Bran the Builder · Durran Godsgrief &amp; Elenei 
 Garth Greenhand · First King · Florian &amp; Jonquil · The Grey King · The Griffin King · Joramun · Lann the Clever 
The Night's King &amp; the Night's Queen · The Rat Cook · The Prince That Was Promised Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Joramun?oldid=220997"