The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Joss Season(s) 1 Appeared in "A Golden Crown" Status Alive Allegiance House Tully Portrayed by Niall Cusack "They burned almost everything in the Riverlands. Our fields... our granaries... our homes! They took our women. Then they... took 'em again. When they was done them... butchered them as if they was animals. They covered... our children in pitch... and lit them on fire." ―Joss recounts Gregor Clegane's attrocities.[src] 

Joss is a minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Niall Cusack and only appears in "A Golden Crown." Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Joss is a peasant from the Riverlands. Season 1Edit 

He attends court in King's Landing escorted by some bannermen of House Tully to report a series of brutal raids being carried out by Gregor Clegane in the Riverlands. He wears the sigil of House Tully on his sleeve. He brings a sack of dead fish that had been left by Clegane at the scene of his atrocities. Eddard Stark responds by stripping Clegane of his titles and ordering his execution. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the Song of Ice and Fire novels, the handful of surviving smallfolk from the town of Sherrer are brought before the Iron Throne by a trio of knights from the Riverlands (Karyl Vance, Marq Piper, and Raymun Darry). The commoner who speaks directly to Ned Stark, and indicates that Gregor Clegane was responsible for the attack, is a brewer from Sherrer named Joss. The TV series credits only listed him as "Riverlands refugee", but it is clear which book character he was portraying. See alsoEdit Joss (A Golden Crown) on A Wiki of Ice and Fire Raymun Darry on A Wiki of Ice and Fire Marq Piper on A Wiki of Ice and Fire Karyl Vance on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Golden Crown" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Joss_(A_Golden_Crown)?oldid=229984"