The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Joss Stilwood Season(s) 1, 4 First seen "The Wolf and the Lion" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance House Clegane "Sword!" ―Gregor Clegane to Joss Stilwood[src] 

Joss Stilwood is a background character in the first and fourth season. He is played by an unidentified extra and appears in "The Wolf and the Lion." Joss Stilwood is the squire of Ser Gregor Clegane. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

Joss Stilwood squires for Ser Gregor Clegane, the Mountain, in the Tourney of the Hand. After Ser Gregor is defeated in a joust by Ser Loras Tyrell, who was riding a mare in heat to upset Ser Gregor's stallion, he orders Joss to bring him his greatsword. Ser Gregor then beheads his horse in anger. Season 4Edit 

Joss squires for Gregor when he faces Prince Oberyn Martell in the Second Trial by Combat of Tyrion Lannister. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Joss Stilwood is the squire of Ser Gregor Clegane. He takes part in the gang rape of Layna the Innkeeper's daughter. See alsoEdit Joss Stilwood on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Clegane Lord: Ser Gregor Clegane Heir: Sandor Clegane Seat: Clegane's Keep Lands: Westerlands Title(s): None Deceased members: Clegane Household: Joss Stilwood · {The Tickler} · Weasel Overlord: House Lannister Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Joss_Stilwood?oldid=232591"