Kayla Season(s) 3, 4 First seen "Walk of Punishment" Appeared in 2 episodes Status Alive Portrayed by Pixie Le Knot "Kayla is famous here to Volantis... in certain circles. One of four women in the world who can perform a proper Meereenese Knot." ―Tyrion Lannister[src] 

Kayla is a recurring character in the third and fourth seasons. She is portrayed by contortionist Pixie Le Knot. Kayla is a prostitute in the King's Landing brothel owned by Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Kayla is a talented contortionist. 

Kayla is a prostitute and a highly skilled contortionist. She is one of only four women in the known world who can bend her body to the extent that she can properly perform a sexual position known as the "Meereenese Knot". Season 3Edit 

Along with Marei and Genna, she is one of the three prostitutes in Littlefinger's brothel who are hired by Tyrion Lannister to service Podrick Payne as a reward for saving his life in the Battle of the Blackwater. Kayla and her colleagues are apparently so satisfied with Podrick that they decline payment, much to the astonishment of Tyrion, Bronn, Ros, and even Varys. Season 4Edit 

Kayla is present as an entertainer at the wedding feast between King Joffrey Baratheon and Lady Margaery Tyrell. Her performance is admired by Oberyn Martell and Ellaria Sand. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Behind the ScenesEdit 

The actress who plays Kayla, Pixie Le Knot, is a professional contortionist. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no character named Kayla. The "Meereenese Knot" is an inside joke to the books fandom about a major plot issue George R. R. Martin had to deal with when writing A Dance With Dragons. See alsoEdit Kayla on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "The Lion and the Rose" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Kayla?oldid=230922"