Kegs Season(s) 4 Appeared in "The Mountain and the Viper" Status Deceased Death Killed by wildlings Allegiance Night's Watch Portrayed by Tim Landers Grenn: "We just cower in here while they slaughter our brothers?" Edd: "Our brother had orders to stay at Castle Black." Grenn: "Oh, so it's alright, then?! Black Jack and Kegs and Mully chopped to pieces because they broke the rules?!" Edd: "I didn't say it was alright! I'm saying they shouldn't have been there." — Grenn and Eddison Tollett[src] 

Kegs is a minor character in the fourth season. He is a Builder of the Night's Watch. He is played by guest star Tim Landers and only appears in "The Mountain and the Viper". Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 4Edit 

Along with Black Jack Bulwer and Mully, he travels to the brothel in Mole's Town. They sit drinking and listening to a whore belching out the melodies to popular songs. Kegs guesses that she is belching "The Rains of Castamere", and she chastises him for getting it wrong. They are later slaughtered when a group of wildlings led by Tormund and Styr attack the village. News of their deaths soon reaches Castle Black. AppearanceEdit Season four credits Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Kegs is a Builder of the Night's Watch. He is noted to be slow. He is not killed in a wildling attack on Mole's Town. During the battle, while retreating with other defenders to the stair, Kegs is caught and nearly killed by a Thenn, but he is saved by a crossbow shot from Satin. So far he is alive and well. See alsoEdit Kegs on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Kegs?oldid=228390"