Knight of House Frey Season(s) 1 Appeared in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Titles Ser Status Alive Allegiance House Frey Portrayed by Patrick Ryan "Lord Walder is well, my lady. He has requested the honor of your father's presence on his ninetieth nameday; he intends to take another wife." ―The Knight[src] 

A Knight of House Frey is an unnamed minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Patrick Ryan and only appears in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things." Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

He is drinking with companions at the Inn at the Crossroads when Tyrion Lannister arrives on his way south. Catelyn Stark is also in the inn and Tyrion recognizes her. She turns to the knights from the Riverlands in the inn to help her to take Tyrion into custody, accusing him of attempting to murder her son Bran Stark. She asserts her origin as a daughter of House Tully and then tells the Knight of House Frey that she knows his sigil and asks after Lord Walder Frey. He reports that Lord Frey is about to celebrate his ninetieth name day and has invited Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun. Catelyn announces that she will return Tyrion to Winterfell to await the King's justice. The Knight of House Frey draws his sword and threatens Tyrion, along with the other soldiers loyal to the Tullys. Unlike the other men loyal to House Tully from the Inn he does not escort Catelyn further. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is a large group of Frey men-at-arms in the inn and Catelyn addresses the Captain of the group. See alsoEdit House Frey at A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Knight_of_House_Frey?oldid=228409"