For similar articles see Lannister soldier. Lannister scout Season(s) 1 Appeared in "The Pointy End" Status Alive Allegiance House Lannister Portrayed by Chris Gallagher Robb Stark: "Tell Lord Tywin winter is coming for him. 20,000 Northerners marching south to find out if he really does shit gold." Lannister scout: "Yes, my lord. Thank you, my lord." — The scout after being spared by Robb Stark[src] 

A Lannister scout is an unnamed minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Chris Gallagher and only appears in "The Pointy End." Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

He is captured by the forces of House Stark. Robb Stark interrogates him and learns that he has estimated the size of the Stark army as 20,000 men. Robb feigns mercy and lets him go in an effort to trick Tywin Lannister into thinking 20,000 Northmen were marching against his army, when in actuality Robb had only sent 2,000 men. This by extension has Robb defeat Jaime Lannister's army at the Whispering Wood, with Jaime being captured himself. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Pointy End" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lannister_scout?oldid=228005"