Lannister guardsman Season(s) 2 Appeared in "Garden of Bones" Status Deceased Death Killed by Grey Wind 
"Garden of Bones" Allegiance House Lannister Portrayed by Sam Mackay "Oh, you're a right little prick!" ―The soldier to Rennick[src] 

A Lannister guardsman is an unnamed minor character in "Garden of Bones." He is played by guest star Sam Mackay. He is killed at the Battle of Oxcross. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

The unnamed Lannister guardsman is on sentry duty at the camp of the Lannister forces commanded by Ser Stafford Lannister on the way to reinforce the army of Tywin Lannister in the Riverlands. Season 2Edit 

He is on guard duty with Rennick at the perimeter of Stafford Lannister's camp prior to the Battle of Oxcross. They discuss who is the greatest swordsman in the Seven Kingdoms. He argues for Ser Gregor Clegane and Ser Loras Tyrell over Rennick's contrary opinions. 

Rennick and the guardsman discuss swordsman. 

Rennick looks up as Grey Wind attacks. 

He notices that the horses seem to be restless, but Rennick thinks that is just because they are under trees in shadows. Suddenly, Rennick acts as if he hears something and is concerned. Lannister guardsman follows him hesitantly. When Rennick draws his sword, he thinks they are about to be attacked, but then Rennick passes gas and starts laughing. Rennick starts urinating on the ground and continues to laugh at his joke ignoring the continued restlessness of the horses. The Lannister guardsman realizes something is out there and screams Rennick's name. Rennick looks up just as Grey Wind, Robb Stark's direwolf leaps out of the trees. Robb Stark has sent Grey Wind to attack the horses to cause confusion when the Stark army attacks the camp. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis ReferencesEdit ↑ "Garden of Bones" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lannister_guardsman_(Garden_of_Bones)?oldid=227995"