For other articles see Lannister bannerman. Lannister bannerman 2 Season(s) 1, 2, 3 First seen "Fire and Blood" Last seen "Second Sons" Appeared in 5 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance House Lannister Portrayed by Unknown 

A Lannister bannerman is an unnamed recurring background character in the first and second season. He is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in "Fire and Blood." He is fighting for Lord Tywin Lannister in the War of the Five Kings. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

He is at a strategy meeting held by Tywin Lannister following their side's defeat at the Battle of the Whispering Wood. Season 2Edit 

He attends the war council of Tywin Lannister at Harrenhal. Also present are Ser Amory Lorch, Reginald Lannister and two other bannermen. He is also present when Tywin reprimands Ser Amory for his illiteracy. He is again present when Ser Kevan Lannister and Tywin discuss leaving Harrenhal. Season 3Edit 

He attends the wedding of Tyrion Lannister and Sansa Stark, in which he sits at the right of Tywin&nbsp;during the feast. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa GalleryEdit Lannister bannerman with Addam Marbrand (middle) and Leo Lefford (right) 
Add a photo to this gallery ReferencesEdit ↑ "Fire and Blood" ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" ↑ "Second Sons" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lannister_bannerman_2_(The_Ghost_of_Harrenhal)?oldid=232546"