Lead Kingsguard Season(s) 5 First seen "Sons of the Harpy" Appeared in 1 episode Status Alive Allegiance Kingsguard Portrayed by Paddy Wallace Lead Kingsguard: "Give the order and we'll clear out this rabble." Tommen Baratheon: "You mean...kill them? Here in the Sept?" Lead Kingsguard: "We'll be sending them to meet the gods that they love." — The lead Kingsguard to King Tommen Baratheon[src] 

A Lead Kingsguard is a minor character in the fifth season who first appears in the episode "Sons of the Harpy". He is portrayed by Paddy Wallace. Contents[show] Biography Season 5 

He is one one of the five Kingsguard who guard King Tommen on his way to the High Sparrow. When the present members of the Faith Militant deny Tommen entrance to the Great Sept of Baelor because the High Sparrow is praying, the Lead Kingsguard asks for permission to kill the fanatics. However, Tommen is clearly hesitant about shedding blood on holy ground. Adding to this, some of the smallfolk gathered outside the Sept proceed to insult Tommen, calling him a "bastard" and an "abomination". Seeing that they are hopelessly outnumbered, Tommen tactfully declines to give the order and says they will find another way to free his brother-in-law. Appearances Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Gallery The Lead Kingsguard advises Tommen to kill the religious fanatics around 
Add a photo to this gallery &nbsp;In the books 

In the&nbsp;A Song of Ice and Fire&nbsp;novels, Tommen Baratheon never goes to meet with the High Sparrow. The name of this Kingsguard is not mentioned, but the candidates, by cross-referencing the events of the episode with the established background Kingsguard in the show, are: Preston Greenfield (who was established to be alive in Season 4 unlike his book counterpart), Boros Blount (even though in the Histories &amp; Lore he's referred to as "the Fat" and isn't young), Arys Oakheart, Balon Swann, and Osmund Kettleblack. References ↑ "Sons of the Harpy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lead_Kingsguard?oldid=232250"