The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Leaf Season(s) 4 First seen "The Children" Appeared in 1 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance Children of the Forest Culture Children of the Forest Religion Old Gods of the Forest Portrayed by Octavia Alexandru "The First Men called us 'the Children', but we were born long before them." ―Leaf[src] 

Leaf&nbsp;is a minor character in&nbsp;the fourth season. She is a member of the non-human race known as the Children of the Forest. Contents[show] BiographyEdit ​Season 4Edit 

When Bran Stark and his companions are attacked by wights as they approach the heart tree beyond the Wall that they have been searching for, they are saved by Leaf, who uses powerful magic in the form of explosive long-range fireballs to destroy the wights. During the attack, Leaf tells Meera Reed to leave her wounded brother Jojen to die, or else die with him. Leaf then uses her magic to destroy Jojen's body to prevent him from being reanimated as a wight. Leaf then tells the group to follow her into the cave at the base of the heart tree, explaining that the wights cannot follow them into the cave. As the group runs into the cave, Leaf tells them that she is one of the Children, before leading the group deep into the cave to finally meet the three-eyed raven. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children ​In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Leaf is a Child of the Forest in service to the Three-eyed raven. She is described as having nut-brown skin that is dappled like a deer's with paler spots, large ears, large liquid gold and green eyes which are slit like a cat's eyes. Her hair is a tangle of brown, red and gold, autumn colors, with vines and twigs and withered flowers woven through it. She wears a cloak of leaves. Bran thinks that from far away Leaf looks no older than himself or one of his sisters, but close at hand she seems far older. She has a woman’s voice, high and sweet, with a strange music in it like none Bran has ever heard, and a deep sadness. 

Her true name is unknown: it is in the True Tongue of the Children, thus it is very long and also possibly unpronounceable by humans. "Leaf" is a moniker given to her by Bran. 

Leaf says that she was born during "the time of the dragon", apparently meaning at some point after Aegon I Targaryen conquered and united the Seven Kingdoms 300 years ago. She is at least two centuries old because she also says that she secretly walked the world of men for 200 years observing them from the forests before growing weary and deciding to return home to the hidden cave beyond the Wall. 

The novels have never described the Children of the Forest casting fireballs the way that Leaf seems to in the Season 4 finale - though in the scene, Leaf might be throwing some kind of volatile object at the wights (the camera doesn't focus on her hand). Whatever the case, they are described as magically powerful in the novels and have only briefly appeared in the fifth book - so it is possible that they can cast fireballs in the novels, and it just hasn't been seen yet. In the book version of the scene, Leaf lights the wights on fire using a torch, by darting around and between them with amazing speed and agility. See alsoEdit Leaf on A Wiki of Ice and Fire&nbsp;(MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Children" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Leaf?oldid=228063"