The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Leo Lefford Season(s) 1 First seen "Baelor" Last seen "Fire and Blood" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Lord of Golden Tooth Status Deceased Death Drowned during the Battle of Stone Mill Allegiance House Lefford Portrayed by Vinnie McCabe "The first order of business is ransoming Ser Jaime." ―Leo Lefford[src] 

Leo Lefford is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by guest star Vinnie McCabe and debuts in "Baelor." Leo Lefford is the head of House Lefford and Lord of the Golden Tooth. He is fighting for his liege lord Tywin Lannister in the War of the Five Kings. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Leo Lefford is the Lord of the Golden Tooth and the head of House Lefford, a vassal house of House Lannister. Season 1Edit 

Leo Lefford has dinner with Lord Tywin Lannister and his other commanders the night before their victory in the Battle of the Green Fork. He is present for a strategy meeting with Tywin following the defeat in the Battle of the Whispering Wood. He wears a blue and yellow cloak over his armor. Also present are Tyrion Lannister, Kevan Lannister, Addam Marbrand, another bannerman, Tywin's servant and several Lannister officers. He reports that Grey Wind killed a dozen men and as many horses during the battle. He believes that they should try to ransom Ser Jaime Lannister. He also suggests returning to Casterly Rock to raise levies. Tywin dismisses his bannermen and then announces plans to relocate to Harrenhal. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor * Fire and Blood 

* - Uncredited appearance GalleryEdit Leo Lefford looks at Addam Marbrand 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the bannermen present for the meeting are Leo Lefford, Harys Swyft, and Addam Marbrand. It is Lefford who suggests ransoming Jaime but several of Lefford's other lines from the passage in the book are given to Kevan in the episode. Swyft suggests returning to Casterly Rock but several of Swyft's other lines are also given to Kevan. 

Lord Leo Lefford is the bannerman in charge of Tywin Lannister's baggage train. He later participates in the Battle of the Fords - called the "Battle of Stone Mill" in the TV series, in which he drowns. See alsoEdit Leo Lefford on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "Fire and Blood" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Leo_Lefford?oldid=227821"