Loren I Lannister Season(s) Complete Guide to Westeros, Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "The Field of Fire (Complete Guide to Westeros)" 
"House Lannister (Complete Guide to Westeros)" 
"House Tyrell (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles King of the Rock 
Lord Paramount of the Westerlands 
Warden of the West 
Lord of Casterly Rock Also known as Loren the Last Status Deceased Origin Casterly Rock Allegiance House Lannister "Seeing both the threat and... opportunity the Targaryens represented, Loren wisely surrendered, and aided Aegon in his further conquest of Westeros. The Lannisters were thus appointed Lords Paramount of the Westerlands and Wardens of the West... titles we hold to this day." ―Tywin Lannister[src] 

Loren Lannister, also known as Loren I, is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is deceased when the series begins and appears in the Complete Guide to Westeros and Histories &amp; Lore featurettes. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

King Loren I bends the knee 

Loren Lannister was the last of the Lannister Kings of the Rock. When Aegon the Conqueror invaded Westeros, King Loren joined forces with Mern IX, the King of the Reach, to face Aegon in battle. 

However, Aegon unleashed his three dragons, Vhagar, Meraxes and Balerion the Black Dread against the combined might of the Kingdoms of the Reach and the Rock. Four thousand men perished, consumed in a "field of fire," including King Mern. Seeing he had no chance of victory, King Loren bent the knee to Aegon and gave up his crown. He was named Lord Paramount of the Westerlands and Warden of the West. In the books Edit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Loren's story is the same. See also Edit Loren Lannister on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Field of Fire (Complete Guide to Westeros)" ↑ "House Lannister (Complete Guide to Westeros)" ↑ "House Tyrell (Histories &amp; Lore)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Kings of the independent Seven Kingdoms Kings in the North 

Bran the Builder · Rodrik · Torrhen, the King Who Knelt · Robb, the Young Wolf Kings of the Rock 

Loren I Kings of the Iron Islands 

Grey King · Harren the Black · Balon IX Kings of the Reach 

Garth Greenhand · Mern IX Kings of the 
Mountain and the Vale 

Artys, the Winged Knight · Ronnel Arryn Storm Kings 

Durran Godsgrief · Argilac, the Arrogant Princes of Dorne 

Maron Martell Kings of the Rivers and Hills 

House Mudd 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Loren_Lannister?oldid=227742"