Lorren Season(s) 2 First seen "The Ghost of Harrenhal" Last seen "Valar Morghulis" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Also known as Black Lorren Status Deceased Death Flayed alive by Ramsay Snow Origin The Iron Islands Allegiance House Greyjoy Culture Ironborn Religion Drowned God Portrayed by Forbes KB "I have been reaving and raping since before you left Balon's balls, Captain. Don't reckon I've got much use for your ideas on how to do it. Don't reckon I've got much use for a Captain at all." ―Lorren[src] 

Lorren is a recurring character in the second season. He is played by Forbes KB and debuts in "The Ghost of Harrenhal." Lorren is a veteran ironborn raider dubbed Black Lorren. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Lorren is a famous ironborn raider, noted for his experience and ferocity in battle. He is loyal to House Greyjoy, the rulers of the Iron Islands. Season 2Edit 

When Theon Greyjoy tries to take command of his crew and his ship, the Sea Bitch, Lorren mocks Theon by saying he doesn't need Theon to tell him how things are done, and that he could take on the job as the Captain for himself. 

Lorren is among Theon's&nbsp;ironborn who seize Winterfell. He captured Ser Rodrik Cassel and brought him before Theon, who brutally executes the defiant Rodrik. 

Theon takes out his anger on Lorren in "A Man Without Honor". 

After the escape of Bran and Rickon Stark, Theon blames Lorren for letting a cripple escape who somehow slipped past him. Lorren thinks Hodor must have taken him, adding also that Rickon and Osha are missing. Lorren furthermore provocatively comments on Theon's sexual encounter with Osha the night before, which infuriates Theon. Theon angrily beats Lorren into submission. 

Lorren is present for Theon's speech when Northmen lay siege of Winterfell. Aware of the terms offered to the invaders, he doesn't share the enthusiasm shared by the rest of his comrades. After Theon is knocked by Dagmer, he admits he couldn't wait for Theon to shut up. 

After handing Theon over, Lorren and the other ironborn are flayed alive by Ramsay Snow and the soldiers of House Bolton. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Black Lorren is regarded as one of the most dangerous and formidable ironborn raiders, second only to Andrik the Unsmiling. He's described as a squat, thick man with a long black beard. 

When Theon goes to search for the Stark boys, he gives Lorren command over Winterfell and its residents as castellan. While Ser Rodrik is besieging Winterfell, it is Lorren who urges Theon to fight to the bitter end, but Theon tries instead to negotiate with the besiegers. Although Lorren does not actually defy Theon, he grows to despise him for his behavior, as it is considered weakness and cowardice in the eyes of ironborn. 

When Ramsay and his men turn on Theon and sack Winterfell and kill the ironborn, Lorren fights bravely. It takes four men to kill him. See alsoEdit Lorren on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" ↑ "Valar Morghulis" ↑ "Mhysa" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Greyjoy Lord: King Balon Greyjoy Heir: Princess Yara Greyjoy/Prince Theon Greyjoy (disputed) Seat: Pyke, Pyke Lands: The Iron Islands Title(s): King of the Iron Islands · Lord Reaper of Pyke · King of Salt and Rock · Son of the Sea Wind · Lord of the Iron Islands Ancestors: The Grey King · Vickon Greyjoy Current members: Aeron Greyjoy · Queen Alannys Greyjoy · Euron Greyjoy · Victarion Greyjoy Deceased members: Rodrik Greyjoy · Maron Greyjoy Household: {Dagmer} · {Lorren} · {Drennan} · {Gelmarr} · {Stygg} · {Aggar} · {Wex} · {Urzen} Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lorren?oldid=228034"