Lothor Brune Season(s) 2 Appeared in "The North Remembers" Status Alive Allegiance House Brune (by birth) 
House Baelish Portrayed by Unidentified "Lothor Brune! A freerider in the service of Lord Baelish." ―Tourney Herald[src] 

Lothor Brune is a background character in the second season. He is played by an unidentified extra and only appears in "The North Remembers." Lothor Brune is a freerider in the service of Lord Petyr Baelish. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 2Edit 

Lothor Brune participates in the tourney of King Joffrey Baratheon's sixteenth nameday. He is set to duel Ser Dontos Hollard, but the fight is forfeited when Ser Dontos appears drunk. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Lothor Brune is a relative of House Brune of Brownhollow. He is a quiet, loyal man of middle age described as having has a squashed nose, a square jaw and grey hair. He is stocky and strong, and while not a handsome man he is not ugly either. In the books he was also present at the Tourney of the Hand, defeating Jory Cassel on a judgment by the King, tied with Ser Aron Santagar and lost to Ser Robar Royce. He tips off Petyr Baelish about Sansa Stark's request to spare Ser Dontos at King Joffrey's 13th nameday. He also takes part in the Battle of the Blackwater and is awarded with a knighthood afterwards, earning the nickname "Apple-Eater" for capturing a knight of House Fossoway and killing two more on the battlefield. 

When Ser Dontos spirits Sansa out of King's Landing after the Purple Wedding, Lothor is present on Petyr's ship, and commanded the team of crossbowmen that kill&nbsp;Dontos Hollard at Baelish's order (coincidentally, the same man Lothor was supposed to face at Joffrey's tournament). Lothor throws a burning torch on the rowing boat after Dontos is murdered, ensuring that his body is never recovered. He accompanies Littlefinger to his keep at the Fingers and later to the Eyrie. 

In the books, Joffrey's nameday tournament in which Dontos and Lothor are set to fight is held between men fighting on horseback. Possibly due to budgetary and time constraints, in the TV series they are preparing to fight on foot. This makes it somewhat of a misnomer that Lothar is specifically introduced as a "freerider" but he isn't fighting on horse. See alsoEdit Lothor Brune on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The North Remembers" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baelish Lord: Lord Petyr Baelish Heir: None Seat: The Eyrie (regency) / Baelish Keep / Harrenhal (nominally) Lands: The Vale of Arryn /The Riverlands (nominally) Title(s): Lord Protector of the Vale 
Lord Regent of the Eyrie 
Lord of Baelish Keep 
Lord of Harrenhal (nominally) 
Acting Warden of the East Current members: "Alayne" Deceased members: Baelish · Baelish · Baelish Household: Lothor Brune · Olyvar · {Ros} Overlord: House Frey / House Arryn Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lothor_Brune?oldid=232597"