Lowell Season(s) 4 Appeared in "Two Swords" Status Deceased Death Stabbed in the eyes by Sandor Clegane Allegiance House Lannister "Lowell there... likes 'em a bit broken in." ―Polliver to Sandor Clegane[src] 

Lowell is a minor character in the fourth season. He is played by an unknown extra and appears in "Two Swords." He is a man-at-arms fighting for House Lannister in the War of the Five Kings under the command of Ser Gregor Clegane, the Mountain. He directly works for Clegane's second-in-command, Polliver. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 4Edit 

Lowell is at a tavern along with Polliver and several other Lannister soldiers, harrassing the Innkeeper and attempting to molest his daughter. Lowell is sitting down at a table, eating some chicken as Sandor "The Hound" Clegane and Arya Stark walk in. 

After Sandor argues with Polliver about giving him a free chicken, Polliver offers a trade - a chicken in return for letting the Lannister men take turns molesting Arya. He then gestures to Lowell, saying that he likes the girls he molests to be "broken in" beforehand. This ultimately leads to a brawl between Sandor and the soldiers. Lowell attempts to fight back, but is violently punched in the mouth by Sandor and he falls to the floor. After getting back up, Lowell again tries to swing at Sandor, but Sandor instead parries Lowell's sword into the crotch of another soldier. Lowell proceeds to tackle Sandor to the ground and holds a knife to his throat, but Sandor fights back and uses Lowell's own blade to stab him in the eyes multiple times, killing him. AppearanceEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels there's no mention of one of the Mountain's Men being called Lowell. The people whom Arya and the Hound encounter and fight at the Inn at the Crossroads are Polliver, the Tickler and a squire of House Sarsfield. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Two Swords" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lowell?oldid=228000"