Lyman Beesbury Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles Lord Status Deceased Allegiance House Targaryen 
House Beesbury Culture Andal 

Lyman Beesbury is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is long dead before the start of the series, and thus is not expected to appear. Lyman Beesbury was the head of House Beesbury and a member of the Small Council prior to the Dance of the Dragons. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Criston Cole slits Lyman Beesbury's throat at the Small Council table itself, the very first blood shed in the Dance of the Dragons. 

Lord Lyman was a member of the Small Council under Viserys I Targaryen. When King Viserys died and Ser Criston Cole of the Kingsguard plotted to crown Viserys's son instead of his daughter and designated heir, the aged Lord Lyman protested, prompting Ser Criston to kill him before eyes of the entire council. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Lyman Beesbury is never mentioned. He appears, however, in The Princess and the Queen short story. Lord Lyman was Lord of Honeyholt and the Master of Coin during the reign of Jaehaerys the Conciliator and also under Viserys I, as replacement of Prince Daemon Targaryen. He was eighty when Viserys I passed away. When the small council met to plot crowning Prince Aegon, Viserys's eldest son by his second wife, over Princess Rhaenyra, Viserys's designated heir, Lord Lyman soundly protested even though he was outnumbered. Ser Criston Cole silenced the discussion by slitting Lord Lyman's throat with his dagger. He was replaced as Master of Coin by Ser Tyland Lannister, the Master of Ships. See alsoEdit Lyman Beesbury on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Beesbury Lord: Heir: Seat: Honeyholt Lands: The Reach Title(s): Lord of Honeyholt Deceased members: Lyman Beesbury · Humfrey Beesbury Overlord: House Tyrell Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lyman_Beesbury?oldid=210765"