Lynesse Hightower Season(s) 1 Mentioned in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Titles Lady Status Alive Origin Oldtown Allegiance House Hightower (by birth) 
House Mormont (by marriage) (formerly) Family Alerie Hightower - sister 
Jorah Mormont - husband (separated) 
Tregar Ormollen - lover 
{Jeor Mormont} - father-in-law 
Mace Tyrell - brother-in-law 
Margaery Tyrell - niece 
Loras Tyrell - nephew Jorah Mormont: "I had no money and an expensive wife." Daenerys Targaryen: "And where is she now?" Jorah Mormont: "In another place, with another man." — Jorah Mormont's rationalization for selling poachers into slavery.[src] 

Lynesse Hightower is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. She is the former wife of Ser Jorah Mormont, the former Lord of Bear Island, and a member of House Hightower of Oldtown. She is the younger sister of Alerie Tyrell, the wife of Lord Mace Tyrell. 

While Jorah explained how his wife left him in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things", he did not state her name, though it is known from the books. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

When Daenerys Targaryen asks Ser Jorah Mormont the reason he had sold poachers into slavery, he mentions Lynesse and her expensive tastes, which he always sought to please, leading to his ruin. Then Daenerys asks where is she now and he answers that she's in another place with another man. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Lynesse is described as extremely beautiful with blonde hair and pale skin. Jorah Mormont says she looked a bit like Daenerys Targaryen. Lynesse married Jorah after he won a tournament to celebrate the victory of King Robert against the Greyjoy Rebellion, in which Jorah wore her favor. Lynesse was used to the riches and luxury of Oldtown and found Bear Island primitive and rude. Jorah's attempts to please his wife led to him spending all of his money. He disgraced himself through behavior unbefitting a lord, by arresting poachers and selling them to slavers. Slavery is illegal in the Seven Kingdoms and has been for millennia. When Eddard Stark came to arrest Jorah, he and Lynesse fled across the Narrow Sea to the Free City of Lys, leaving his aunt Maege to become the ruling Lady of Bear Island. Jorah attempted to make his living as a sellsword, but was unable to provide an income acceptable to Lynesse. She left him and became a concubine to the merchant-lord Tregar Ormollen. See also Edit Lynesse Hightower on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Hightower Lord: Unknown Heir: Unknown Seat: The Hightower, Oldtown Lands: The Reach Title(s): Lord of the Hightower · Voice of Oldtown Current members: Alerie Hightower · Lynesse Hightower Deceased members: Alicent Hightower · Gerold Hightower Overlord: House Tyrell v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Mormont Lord: Lady Lyanna Mormont Heir: Unknown Seat: Bear Island Lands: The North Title(s): Lord of Bear Island Current members: Jorah Mormont · Lynesse Mormont Deceased members: Jeor Mormont · Maege Mormont Overlord: House Stark Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Lynesse_Hightower?oldid=232346"