Mago Season(s) 1 First seen "Winter is Coming" Last seen "The Pointy End" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Deceased Death Throat cut open by Khal Drogo 
"The Pointy End" Allegiance Khal Drogo Culture Dothraki Religion Great Stallion Portrayed by Ivailo Dimitrov "A Khal who takes orders from a foreign whore is no Khal." ―Mago to Drogo[src] 

Mago is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by stunt performer Ivailo Dimitrov and debuts in the series premiere. Mago is a rider in Khal Drogo's khalasar. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

Mago attends Drogo's wedding to the Westerosi exile Daenerys Targaryen. He watches as two warriors squabble over a dancer at the wedding. 

Mago objects to Daenerys intervening and denying the Dothraki to take their share of the Lhazareen women as spoils of war. He refuses to recognize her authority as khaleesi, calling her a foreign whore, and also defies Drogo. The Khal fights him, disdainfully disarming himself and deliberately accepting an arakh wound to show contempt for Mago's combat skills before slitting his throat with his own weapon and then pulling his tongue out through the neck wound. 

Shortly after Mago's death, the wound he gave Drogo begin to festers, eventually leading to Drogo's incapacitation and subsequent death. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mago is part of Khal Drogo's khalasar, serving under Ko Jhaqo. He complains that Daenerys deprived him of his rape victim, but then the book only depicts the conversational confrontation among&nbsp;Mago,&nbsp;Drogo&nbsp;and&nbsp;Daenerys&nbsp;about&nbsp;this affair, and this section concludes with&nbsp;Drogo&nbsp;orally denying&nbsp;Mago; no following force&nbsp;conflict&nbsp;is described. On the other hand,&nbsp;Drogo was injured not by Mago, but during a battle against the khalasar of Khal Ogo. 

Following Drogo's death, Mago becomes a bloodrider for Jhaqo, one of the several Kos that proclaim themselves Khals, followed by a portion of Drogo's Khalasar. He seizes Eroeh, the Lhazareen girl that Daenerys saved earlier from him (Eroeh is&nbsp;not included in the TV series), then he and the other bloodriders gang-rape her, and finally cut her throat. When Daenerys hears about this, she swears that she will pay Mago back for what he did to Eroeh. So far she has not had a chance to fulfill her oath. 

In the DVD commentary for the episode "The Pointy End", George R.R. Martin comments on the "butterfly effect" created when a character is killed off in the TV series, given that Mago continues to appear in the books. See alsoEdit Mago on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) Ogo on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Winter is Coming" ↑ "The Pointy End" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mago?oldid=211050"