Marei Season(s) 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 First seen "The North Remembers" Appeared in 6 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance Petyr Baelish Portrayed by Josephine Gillan "Now, as it happens, Marei... is quite the spear-handler herself. She's here to thank you for staying by my side as the battle raged all around me." ―Tyrion Lannister to Podrick Payne[src] 

Marei is a recurring character in the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth seasons. She is a prostitute in the King's Landing brothel owned by Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 2Edit 

She is a new prostitute in the brothel owned by Lord Petyr Baelish. She is training with a male prostitute and receives instructions on how to act aroused by the veteran Ros. 

Later, another customer of the brothel watches Marei and a male prostitute having sex through a spy-hole in the wall of one of the brothel's rooms. Season 3Edit 

Marei meets Podrick 

Marei is one of the three prostitutes hired by Tyrion Lannister to service Podrick Payne as a reward for saving his life in the Battle of the Blackwater. Marei and her colleagues are apparently so satisfied with Podrick that they decline payment, much to the astonishment of Tyrion, Bronn, Ros, and even Varys. Season 4Edit 

Ellaria Sand picks out Marei at the brothel and they begin to kiss. 

Marei is the second of three prostitutes being offered to Oberyn Martell and Ellaria Sand by Olyvar. Ellaria is delighted to see that Marei is "not timid". When Oberyn asks her if she likes women, Marei says that she does, as long as they look like Ellaria, prompting the Dornish paramour to compliment Marei's good taste. She begins kissing Ellaria, but they are interrupted when Oberyn storms out of the room to confront two Lannister soldiers. 

Marei later indeed services Ellaria during a private orgy also involving Oberyn, Olyvar, and a third prostitute, possibly to celebrate the recent assassination of King Joffrey Baratheon at his own wedding. Lord Tywin Lannister then interrupts, entering the room and saying he wants to discuss political matters with Prince Oberyn in private - particularly, that he wants Oberyn to be a judge at his son Tyrion's trial, and will give him a seat on the Small Council to ensure that Dorne continues to support Joffrey's younger brother Tommen. Marei and the other prostitutes quickly leave, along with Ellaria. Season 5Edit 

When the Faith Militant is rearmed, they storm Littlefinger's brothel, driving out all of the prostitutes and clients. Marei is interrupted while in the middle of having sex with a man, and they drag her out of the brothel by her hair while she screams in terror. Olyvar tries to intervene with the man hauling her out but he simply gets hit in the face. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy QuotesEdit "He's handsome. You didn't tell me he was handsome." ―Marei to Tyrion Lannister, regarding Podrick Payne[src] Behind the scenesEdit 

Marei first appeared in the Season 2 premiere, but wasn't formally introduced and given a name until the third episode of Season 3. 

As of Season 5, following the death of Ros in Season 3, Marei is the longest recurring prostitute character in the series, both in total number of seasons and continuous seasons in a row. By this point she has appeared in six episodes across four seasons starting with Season 2. None of the other minor prostitute characters introduced in Seasons 1 or 2 reappeared afterwards (save for Ros and Shae who are now dead), and the only other prostitutes introduced in Season 3 who returned in Season 4 were Kayla the contortionist and Olyvar, the male prostitute who worked as a spy for Littlefinger. Marei and Olyvar returned in Season 5, but Kyra did not (Olyvar was introduced the season after Marei, so he will always lag one season behind). Ros did appear in more episodes overall (fourteen) and had more screentime, but she only appeared in three seasons (in a row). Marei surpassed Ros as the longest recurring invented prostitute character in Season 5 - arguably Shae might be counted as recurring longer than Ros, with four continuous seasons, but she wasn't a character invented for the TV series. Either way, Marei's confirmed return in Season 6 means she will have appeared in five continuous seasons of the TV series, also surpassing Shae's record. Shae is set to reappear in dream sequences in Season 6, meaning she will have "appeared" (in some fashion) in five seasons - but not five seasons in a row, as Marei has. 

Josephine Gillan explained in an interview after Season 5 that for the episode "Sons of the Harpy", when the Faith Militant storm Littlefinger's brothel and drag Marei out of the building, it was originally planned that they would punch Marei in the face, so hard (possibly breaking Marei's nose or jaw) that Gillan was going to need to have a large amount of fake blood continuing to pour out of her mouth as she is dragged away. The production team later decided, however, that seeing a woman beaten up like this was too dark and violent for the needs of the scene, and just had her dragged away by her hair. This wiki article does not contain many images of Marei, because she hasn't worn clothes in nearly all scenes she has appeared in - save briefly in the Season 4 premiere, before she again disrobes. The Wikia organization has staunch guidelines against posting images which feature nudity - Game of Thrones Wiki was contacted by Wikia Staff officers to enforce this policy. As a result, this article is mostly limited to headshots of Marei. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is a prostitute named Marei at Chataya's establishment. She is a fairly minor character, and apart from the name and the general fact that she is a prostitute in King's Landing, Marei in the TV series isn't particularly based on Marei from the books (in fact, the TV character was only given the name the season after she was introduced). Most of Marei's scenes so far in the TV series have no direct counterpart in the narrative of the novels. Nonetheless she is not, strictly speaking, a character entirely "invented" for the TV series the way Ros or Armeca were. 

Marei in the books has green eyes, porcelain skin, and silvery hair, but is also very solemn. She is also literate. While in the TV series Bronn celebrated being knighted by having sex with Mirelle, in the books he celebrated by having sex with Marei and another prostitute named Alayaya, simultaneously. This occurred at the beginning of the third novel, and correspondingly, Bronn celebrated his knighthood by going to the brothel at the beginning of Season 3. Marei has not been mentioned in the novels afterwards. 

In the TV series, Tyrion pronounces her name "Muh-ray" (with a short A), as opposed to "Mare-ay" (that is, with a long A). See alsoEdit Marei on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy" ↑ Josephine Gillan interview, October 2015 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Marei?oldid=230104"