Margaery's handmaiden Season(s) 3 Appeared in "Valar Dohaeris" Status Alive Allegiance House Tyrell Portrayed by Aisling Jarrett-Gavin 

Margaery's handmaiden is a character in the third season. She is portrayed by Aisling Jarrett-Gavin. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 3Edit 

Margaery's handmaiden rides with her mistress in a palanquin as the King's&nbsp;party returns to the Red Keep from services at the Great Sept of Baelor. Somewhere in Flea Bottom, Lady Margaery stops the procession and disembarks. The handmaiden cautiously follows. Margaery begins to cross a muddy path into an orphanage when her handmaiden warns she will ruin her dress, a concern Margaery brushes off. As Lady Margaery speaks with children in an orphanage, the handmaiden hands out toys, suggesting she was aware of at least some part of Margaery's plan. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Image GalleryEdit 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Margaery Tyrell arrives in King's Landing to wed King Joffrey Baratheon accompanied by three handmaidens, Elinor Tyrell, Megga Tyrell, and Alla Tyrell. The girls are all daughters of different cadet branches of House Tyrell. Elinor Tyrell is the only one of the three to have reached puberty. Other companions of Margaery include Meredyth Crane and Alyce Graceford. 

Both of the handmaidens seen in "Valar Dohaeris", as well as the two attending Lady Olenna in "And Now His Watch is Ended" are obviously adults, so that particular detail appears to have been ignored. Their relationship to Margaery might be the same, however, since those two refer to Olenna as "nana", which presumably means she is their grandmother. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Valar Dohaeris" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Margaery%27s_handmaiden?oldid=232605"