Marianne Frey Season(s) 3 Appeared in "The Rains of Castamere" Status Alive Origin The Twins Allegiance House Frey Family Walder Frey - grandfather 
Walda Frey - aunt 
Derwa Frey - aunt 
Waldra Frey - aunt 
Roslin Frey - aunt 
Shirei Frey - aunt Portrayed by Katie Creaven "My granddaughter, Marianne." ―Lord Walder Frey[src] 

Marianne Frey&nbsp;is one of the many granddaughters of Walder Frey. She only appears in the Season 3 episode "The Rains of Castamere". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Marianne&nbsp;is one of the many granddaughters of Walder Frey, the Lord of the Crossing. Season 3Edit 

Along with several of Lord Frey's other daughters and granddaughters, Robb Stark had the option of marrying her. When he arrives at The Twins for his uncle Edmure's&nbsp;wedding, Robb apologizes&nbsp;for his slight against them. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Lord Walder has no granddaughter named "Marianne". He does have a great-granddaughter named Marianne Vance, daughter of Ser Dafyn Vance and Maegelle Frey. This Marianne is herself the granddaughter of Walder's eldest son, Ser Stevron Frey. She is among the Frey girls presented to Robb before Edmure's wedding. See alsoEdit Marianne Vance on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Rains of Castamere" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Frey Lord: Lord Walder Frey Heir: Ser Stevron Frey Seat: The Twins · Riverrun Lands: Riverlands Title(s): Lord of the Crossing · Lord of Riverrun · Lord Paramount of the Trident Ancestors: Frey Current members: Arwaya Frey · Derwa Frey · Freya Frey · Janeya Frey · Lothar Frey · Marianne Frey · Merry Frey · Neyela Frey · Olyvar Frey · Roslin Frey · Sarra Frey · Serra Frey · Shirei Frey · Walda Frey · "Fat Walda" Frey · Waldra Frey · Waldron Frey · Ryger Rivers · Black Walder Rivers Deceased members: Joyeuse Erenford Household: Malcolm · Talbot Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Marianne_Frey?oldid=227704"