Mern IX Gardener Season(s) 1 Titles King of the Reach Status Deceased Death Burned alive by dragons on the Field of Fire Origin Highgarden Allegiance House Gardener "King Mern allied us with the Rock to repel the upstart's army. One can only marvel that King Mern did not reconsider when he saw the living dragons against him. Perhaps he should've sought counsel from his trusted stewards before he set out. Then again... perhaps he did." ―Margaery Tyrell[src] 

Mern Gardener, also known as Mern IX, is a character mentioned in special features of the first season. He was the last of the Gardener Kings of the Reach. When Aegon the Conqueror invaded Westeros, King Mern joined forces with Loren Lannister, the King of the Rock, to face Aegon in battle. Their armies met at the Field of Fire, during which Mern himself was killed, and his kingdom fell to Aegon. Contents[show] Biography Edit Background Edit 

Mern IX and his sons were burned alive at the Field of Fire. House Gardener died with them. 

At first the united armies of Lannister and Gardener seemed to be winning, pushing back Aegon's troops. However, once Aegon unleashed his three dragons, Vhagar, Meraxes and Balerion the Black Dread, even the combined might of the Kingdoms of the Reach and the Rock could not stand up to them. Four thousand men perished, consumed by the dragons' fire, earning the site of the battle the name of 'the Field of Fire.' Among the dead were King Mern himself and all of his sons; thus the Gardener dynasty became extinct. Mern's steward, Harlen Tyrell, surrendered Highgarden to Aegon and was named Lord Paramount of the Reach, Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the South. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mern's story is the same. See also Edit Mern IX Gardener on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Field of Fire (Complete Guide to Westeros)" ↑ "House Lannister (Complete Guide to Westeros)" ↑ "House Tyrell (Histories &amp; Lore)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Kings of the independent Seven Kingdoms Kings in the North 

Bran the Builder · Rodrik · Torrhen, the King Who Knelt · Robb, the Young Wolf Kings of the Rock 

Loren I Kings of the Iron Islands 

Grey King · Harren the Black · Balon IX Kings of the Reach 

Garth Greenhand · Mern IX Kings of the 
Mountain and the Vale 

Artys, the Winged Knight · Ronnel Arryn Storm Kings 

Durran Godsgrief · Argilac, the Arrogant Princes of Dorne 

Maron Martell Kings of the Rivers and Hills 

House Mudd Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mern_IX_Gardener?oldid=209912"