Mero Season(s) 3 Appeared in "Second Sons" Also known as The Titan's Bastard Status Deceased Death Decapitated by Daario Naharis 
"Second Sons" Origin Braavos Allegiance Second Sons Portrayed by Mark Killeen "Take your clothes off and come sit on Mero's lap... and I may give you my Second Sons." ―Mero to Daenerys Targaryen[src] 

Mero is a minor character who appears in the third season episode "Second Sons". He is played by Mark Killeen. 

Mero is a Braavosi sellsword known as the Titan's Bastard and one of the captains of the Second Sons. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Mero is one of the captains of the company of sellswords known as the Second Sons. He hails from the Free City of Braavos. His nickname, "the Titan's Bastard", makes reference to the Titan of Braavos, the enormous statue that guards the harbor entrance to the city. Season 3Edit 

Along with his co-captain Prendahl na Ghezn and a lieutenant, Daario Naharis, he meets Daenerys in her tent outside Yunkai but snubs her offer to fight for her on the premise that the Second Sons already had a contract with Yunkai. After aiming several lewd comments at Daenerys, which offend Daenerys'&nbsp;bodyguards so much that Grey Worm offers to cut Mero's tongue out,&nbsp;and groping Missandei, he leads the Second Sons out of her tent with a barrel of wine as a token of her willingness to work with them. Despite putting up with his insults while in his presence, the moment he is gone Daenerys orders Ser Barristan Selmy&nbsp;to kill Mero first if&nbsp;their armies come to battle, to which Barristan replies he will be glad to do so.&nbsp; 

Mero is next seen back at his camp discussing Daenerys with Daario and Prendahl while groping a Yunkish bedslave on his lap. They eventually decide to assassinate her. Mero gives the&nbsp;Yunkish slave three coins to hand out at random to the three Second Sons to decide which of them should do the deed – Daario winds up with the Braavosi coin, leaving the task to him. Later that night, Daario enters Daenerys' tent and produces Mero's head, along with that of Prendahl, and pledges the Second Sons to her cause. ​AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Image GalleryEdit Mero in "Second Sons" 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mero's background is the same. He is described as having pale green eyes and a bushy red beard. He is the captain of the Second Sons, though under his leadership the Second Sons' reputation has fallen to the point where none of the Free Cities will hire him any longer. 

In the books, as the Second Sons are a separate company from the Stormcrows – to which Daario Naharis and Prendahl na Ghezn belong – Mero is not killed by Daario, instead he flees when the Stormcrows go over to Daenerys and attack the Yunkish forces. Later he attempts to kill Daenerys, but is stopped and killed by Ser Barristan Selmy&nbsp;(under the name Arstan Whitebeard). See alsoEdit Mero on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) Sallor the Bald on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Second Sons (episode) Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mero?oldid=218069"