Merry Frey Season(s) 3 Appeared in "The Rains of Castamere" Status Alive Origin The Twins Allegiance House Frey Culture Andal Family Walder Frey - grandfather 
Walda Frey - aunt 
Derwa Frey - aunt 
Waldra Frey - aunt 
Roslin Frey - aunt 
Shirei Frey - aunt 
"Fat Walda" Frey - cousin 
Janeya Frey - cousin 
Neyela Frey - cousin 
Serra Frey - cousin 
Sarra Frey - cousin 
Marianne Frey - cousin 
Freya Frey - cousin Portrayed by Grace Hendy Walder Frey: "My granddaughter...Wertha? Walra? Waldina?" Merry Frey: "I'm Merry." Walder Frey: "Fine." — Merry Frey being introduced to Robb Stark[src] 

Merry Frey is one of the many granddaughters of Walder Frey. She only appears in the Season 3 episode "The Rains of Castamere". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Merry is one of the many granddaughters of Walder Frey, the Lord of the Crossing. Season 3Edit 

Along with several of Lord Frey's other daughters and granddaughters, Robb Stark had the option of marrying her. When he arrives at the Twins for his uncle Edmure's&nbsp;wedding, Robb apologizes&nbsp;for his slight against them. When introducing Merry, Lord Walder&nbsp;calls her&nbsp;Wertha, Walra, and Waldina before she meekly corrects him, though he quickly dismisses her. However, during the wedding feast she sits&nbsp;at the main table alongside Walder Frey's wife, Lord Walder himself, and the newlywed couple - the only one of Lord Walder's children (other than the bride Roslin) to sit as his table during the wedding. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is a granddaughter of Lord Walder named Merianne Frey, who is also known as Merry, who is eleven years old (not to be confused with Marianne Vance, daughter of Walder's daughter Maegelle, whose first name is spelled with an "a" not an "e"). She is the daughter of Ser Whalen Frey and Sylwa Paege. Whalen is the third child of Lord Walder's fourth wife, Alyssa Blackwood. Lame Lothar Frey is Walder's eldest child with Alyssa, making him Whalen's older brother and Merianne's uncle. 

Merry was one of the Frey women presented to Robb Stark when he came to the Twins for Lord Edmure Tully's wedding. When she corrects her grandfather on her name, he refers to her as "Noisy", rather than dismissing her.&nbsp; See alsoEdit Merianne Frey on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Rains of Castamere" ↑ "The Rains of Castamere (episode)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Frey Lord: Lord Walder Frey Heir: Ser Stevron Frey Seat: The Twins · Riverrun Lands: Riverlands Title(s): Lord of the Crossing · Lord of Riverrun · Lord Paramount of the Trident Ancestors: Frey Current members: Arwaya Frey · Derwa Frey · Freya Frey · Janeya Frey · Lothar Frey · Marianne Frey · Merry Frey · Neyela Frey · Olyvar Frey · Roslin Frey · Sarra Frey · Serra Frey · Shirei Frey · Walda Frey · "Fat Walda" Frey · Waldra Frey · Waldron Frey · Ryger Rivers · Black Walder Rivers Deceased members: Joyeuse Erenford Household: Malcolm · Talbot Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Merry_Frey?oldid=230328"