Meryn Trant Season(s) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 First seen "The Pointy End" Last seen "Mother's Mercy" Appeared in 18 episodes (see below) Titles Ser Also known as  Status Deceased Death Repeatedly stabbed by Arya Stark in a frenzy, blinding him, and finishing by slitting his throat. 
"Mother's Mercy" Allegiance House Trant 
The Kingsguard Portrayed by Ian Beattie Tyrion Lannister: "What kind of knight beats a helpless girl?!" Meryn Trant: "The kind who serves his king, Imp!" — Tyrion Lannister and Ser Meryn Trant[src] 

Meryn Trant is a recurring character in the first, second, third, fourth and fifth seasons. He was played by guest star Ian Beattie and debuted in "The Pointy End".&nbsp;Ser Meryn Trant was a knight of the Kingsguard under King Robert Baratheon and subsequently Kings Joffrey and Tommen before being killed by Arya Stark. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Ser Meryn Trant is a member of House Trant, a vassal house to House Baratheon. He becomes a knight of the Kingsguard of Robert Baratheon after Robert's Rebellion. He is a successful tourney knight, though Sandor Clegane is scornful of Trant's skills, remarking that "any boy whore with a sword could beat three Meryn Trants." 

He takes great pride in his status as a knight of the Kingsguard, even though he routinely follows orders which break a knight's sworn duty to defend the weak and the innocent without hesitation or question. Season 1Edit 

After King Robert's death, the Lannisters seek to consolidate Joffrey's heirship to the throne by making sure Lord Eddard Stark cooperates, and so they send Ser Meryn Trant with a group of Lannister guardsmen to apprehend Arya Stark. Syrio Forel defends her, armed only with a wooden practice sword. He disables the Lannister guardsmen, to Meryn's fury and disbelief. Syrio tells Arya to run as he faces down the heavily-armored knight. Later, while the newly coronated King Joffrey holds court, Ser Meryn stands amongst the other Kingsguard in the throne room, and Syrio's fate is not mentioned. When Cersei dismisses Ser Barristan Selmy as head of the Kingsguard, the old knight is insulted and draws his sword in fury, inducing Meryn Trant and the rest of the Kingsguard to do the same and to block Ser Barristan's path to the Iron Throne and Joffrey. In response, Barristan sneers that even now he could kill Ser Meryn and the other four Kingsguard as easily as "carving a cake". There is a tense pause in the throne room, but in the end Selmy throws his sword at Joffrey's feet and storms out in disgust. 

Ser Meryn holds Sansa at King Joffrey's orders. 

Ser Meryn is present when Joffrey shows Sansa her father’s head on a spike, and she tells Joffrey that someday Robb may bring her Joffrey's head. As Joffrey says his mother has told him that a king should not strike a woman, he orders Ser Meryn to hit Sansa. Meryn&nbsp;shows no emotion as he does so. Season 2Edit 

Ser Meryn guards King Joffrey Baratheon during his Name Day Tournament in the Red Keep. When Ser Dontos Hollard arrives drunk for his bout, Joffrey orders Meryn to pour a barrel of wine down Dontos' throat. Joffrey relents when he is told it is bad luck to kill a man on his name day by&nbsp;Sansa Stark, who convinces him to make Dontos his court fool instead. 

Following Robb Stark's victory over Stafford Lannister at the Battle of Oxcross, King Joffrey has Sansa Stark brought to court to answer for her brother's crimes. He points a loaded crossbow at her and then commands Ser Meryn to beat Sansa but spare her face. Meryn punches Sansa hard in the stomach and then knocks her over using the flat side of his sword.&nbsp;Joffrey orders Sansa stripped and Meryn tears her dress from her shoulders. Sandor&nbsp;Clegane watches on in disgust at Trant's behavior. 

Tyrion Lannister interrupts the assault on Sansa and asks Meryn what kind of knight beats a helpless girl; he answers with "the kind that serves their king." Bronn sarcastically warns Meryn to be careful of getting blood on his white cloak. Tyrion orders Sansa covered and reminds Joffrey that she is his betrothed. He rebukes Joffrey for absurdly punishing Sansa for events she had no part in. He also notes what became of the Mad King, who also did what he liked until he was killed by Joffrey's uncle, Jaime. Meryn warns Tyrion not to threaten the King; Tyrion counters that he is educating his nephew. He instructs Bronn to kill Meryn if he speaks again and points out that that is a real threat. Tyrion helps Sansa up and walks her out of the throne room. 

Ser Meryn Trant refuses to heed Tyrion's orders. 

Ser Meryn, along with the rest of the Kingsguard, is present when Princess Myrcella Baratheon is sent to Dorne alongside her sworn shield and Meryn's sworn brother, Ser Arys Oakheart. When Joffrey provokes a riot, Ser Meryn cuts down several enraged smallfolk before bringing the King to safety. When Tyrion orders Ser Meryn to gather men to help rescue the missing Sansa Stark, he angrily replies that he takes his orders from the king and refuses to go, as Joffrey is too busy sulking and doesn't care if Sansa dies. Season 3Edit 

Ser Meryn and one of his sworn brothers accompany Cersei Lannister to her brother Tyrion's chambers after the Battle of the Blackwater. They wait outside at Tyrion's insistence. When Bronn and Podrick Payne&nbsp;appear to see Tyrion, the two knights exchange barbs; Meryn is incredulous that Bronn has been appointed a knight for his efforts at the Battle. He sneers that Bronn is merely an upjumped cutthroat, while Bronn, more amused than offended by Meryn's comment, mocks Meryn for being better at "beating little girls than fighting real men", infuriating Meryn.&nbsp;Bronn tries to push past for his meeting with Tyrion, but Ser Meryn bars his way and threatens to cut off his hand if he tries to enter. The two Kingsguard begin to slowly draw their swords, unaware that Bronn also has the knife on his back half drawn. Before they can fight, Cersei reappears, and Ser Meryn leaves with her. Later, when Lady Margaery Tyrell visits an orphanage in Flea Bottom on the way to the Red Keep, King Joffrey asks Ser Meryn why they have stopped. Ser Meryn explains and asks the king if he wishes to speak with his betrothed, but Joffrey, afraid of the smallfolk after they rioted, refuses to leave the litter. 

Ser Meryn is present alongside his fellow Kingsguard when Joffrey meets with his grandfather and Hand of the King, Tywin Lannister. Ser Meryn also attends Tyrion and Sansa's wedding ceremony along with Joffrey and the other Kingsguard. Season 4Edit 

Ser Meryn is present when Jaime Lannister is discussing placement of the Kingsguard during the wedding feast. Jaime is irked by Meryn's sycophantic agreement to Joffrey's bragging that he is responsible for keeping the people fed (Jaime notes that this is more the doing of the&nbsp;House Tyrell) and claiming he singlehandedly won the war.&nbsp;​When&nbsp;Joffrey&nbsp;is poisoned at his wedding feast,&nbsp;Ser&nbsp;Meryn&nbsp;is among the&nbsp;Kingsguard&nbsp;who surround and apprehend&nbsp;Tyrion. 

When Arya Stark tells Sandor Clegane that she believes&nbsp;Syrio Forel was killed by Meryn, Sandor refers to him as "Meryn fucking Trant" and comments "Any boy whore with a sword could beat three Meryn Trants". 

Meryn&nbsp;also speaks as a witness at the trial of Tyrion Lannister. He tells the court how Tyrion slapped and insulted Joffrey during the&nbsp;Riot of King's Landing. Meryn&nbsp;also states how Tyrion compared Joffrey to the Mad King and threatened both of them. Tyrion tries to defend himself by stating he threatened Joffrey&nbsp;and Meryn&nbsp;because they were openly abusing Sansa Stark, but Tywin&nbsp;orders him to remain silent. Following Tyrion's outburst, Tywin orders Meryn to escort him&nbsp;back to his cell, but not before Tyrion demands a trial by combat. 

​After Tyrion's trial, Jaime berates his brother for his outburst and throwing his life away. While discussing the upcoming trial by combat, Tyrion believes that Bronn will fight for him just as he did at the Eyrie. Tyrion hopes Cersei names&nbsp;Meryn Trant&nbsp;as the crown's champion, saying he would enjoy watching Bronn disembowel that "pompous child-beater". However, Jaime informs Tyrion that Ser Gregor Clegane has been named as the crown's champion. Season 5Edit 

Ser Meryn helps escort Cersei Lannister to the Great Sept of Baelor, where the funeral of Tywin Lannister takes place. 

Ever since Tyrion Lannister's escape, Cersei has offered a lordship to anyone who brings her the head of her younger brother. Meryn has brought two men who claim to have Tyrion's head and brings them before the queen, but Cersei reveals that they have killed the wrong dwarf, to Ser Meryn's disgust, so he suggests imprisoning them. However, the Queen pardons the men, as imprisoning them might dissuade other hunters. 

Ser Meryn accompanies Cersei when she visits the High Sparrow. Although he voices his concern about such a visit, Cersei believes that the Sparrows are deeply religious and that they are in no danger. 

Meryn arrives in Braavos 

When Mace Tyrell is assigned to negotiate a deal concerning the Crown's debt with the Iron Bank of Braavos, Cersei assigns Ser Meryn to escort Mace to Braavos. 

Ser Meryn Trant arrives in Braavos as an escort of Mace Tyrell flanked by some Lannister soldiers. He is spotted by Arya Stark who recognizes him immediately. Taking some time off, Meryn and his Lannister men enter a brothel. Ser Meryn is offered multiple prostitutes but he declines them all for being too old until a very young girl is offered. 

Arya slits Meryn Trant's throat. 

The next night, Meryn beats three girls to the point of tears for his own pleasure, though only the first two cry. The third does not show any signs of weakness, and he orders the first two out of the room. As he steps closer, he is shocked as the girl removes her face and stabs him in both eyes and several times in the chest before gagging him. The girl reveals herself as Arya Stark, who toys with him by stabbing him several more times and mocking him as he is left whimpering from the pain, until she finally slits his throat. Personality Edit 

Meryn Trant is known for being a casually cruel man who follows any orders from the king no matter how ridiculous or unnecessary, such as beating Sansa in plain view of the court to the disgust of Tyrion, Bronn, and the Hound. He also blindly follows orders from Cersei. It is also heavily implied that he is a cowardly and inept fighter due to having no problem combating Syrio Forel whilst in full armor or abandoning Sansa to the angry mob during the Riot of King's Landing, using his loyalty to King Joffrey as a convenient excuse. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy QuotesEdit "You're a grob in fancy armor who's better at beating little girls than fighting men." ―Bronn insults Meryn Trant.[src] "You know who I am? I'm Arya Stark. Do you know who you are? You're no one. You're nothing." ―Arya Stark's final words before she kills Meryn Trant.[src] Image galleryEdit Ser Meryn Trant and Lannister redcloaks prepare to fight Syrio Forel. Ser Meryn before Syrio Forel Meryn as a witness at Tyrion's trial Meryn Trant in Season 5 escorting Cersei Lannister 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Meryn Trant is described as having red hair, red beard, and deep circles under his eyes. He is a skilled warrior and is seen several times in the books as having success in tournaments, particularly at jousting. He went far in the Hand's Tourney, before being unhorsed by Ser Loras. He is considered to have a sly and cruel streak. Even though the Trants are sworn to Storm's End and House Baratheon, Ser Meryn is regarded by Varys as "Cersei's creature". 

Meryn, along with the other four&nbsp;Kingsguard members present, openly laughs when his Lord Commander Barristan Selmy is unlawfully dismissed from service. 

Ser Meryn in the TV series is something of a condensation of Meryn and Boros Blount in the books; while Boros is in the TV series most of his lines and actions have been given to Meryn, such as beating Sansa in the Throne Room and subsequently being threatened by Tyrion. In the books, Meryn and Boros often appear together, acting as Joffrey's leading enforcers, carrying out his orders to have Sansa beaten in public, or to attack commoners. 

At the riot started by Joffrey, Ser Meryn was riding next to Sansa but quickly abandoned her, saying he needed to focus on protecting the King. Tyrion thinks that the sight of two other Kingsguard members being downed by the rioters made Meryn panic, and that he simply used protecting Joffrey as an excuse. 

When Jaime interviews the present Kingsguard members, he confronts Ser Meryn about beating Sansa, asking him mockingly where in the Book of Brothers it is written that the Kingsguard swear to beat women and children. Ser Meryn claims he was just obeying the king's orders. Jaime, who has witnessed firsthand what disasters can happen as a result of blind obedience to a king, tells Ser Meryn bluntly "Henceforth you will temper that obedience. Use that ugly thing you keep inside your helm. If Tommen wants you to saddle his horse, obey him. If he tells you to kill his horse, come to me". 

Ser Meryn is the second to testify in Tyrion's trial. His testimony is partially false, and he "forgets" to mention crucial facts, in order to make Tyrion look guilty. 

Ser Meryn is not sent to Braavos as a guard for the new Master of Coin (who is Harys Swift, not Mace Tyrell), thus is not killed by Arya. Instead, another man in Arya's kill list, Rafford (also known as Raff the Sweetling), is sent with Ser Harys, and meets his fate. As of A Dance with Dragons, Ser Meryn is still alive and active, though his death in the TV series suggests that he will die in a later novel. See alsoEdit Meryn Trant on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) Rafford on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Kingsguard (Histories &amp; Lore)" ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ Fire and Blood" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ 6.0 6.1 "Garden of Bones" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "Valar Dohaeris" ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" ↑ "Second Sons" ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "The Lion and the Rose" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ "The Laws of Gods and Men" ↑ "Mockingbird" ↑ "The Wars to Come" ↑ "The House of Black and White" ↑ "High Sparrow (episode)" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy (episode)" ↑ "The Dance of Dragons" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of King's Landing Lord: King Tommen I Heir: Seat: Red Keep, King's Landing Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): King of the Andals and the First Men · Lord of the Seven Kingdoms · Protector of the Realm Current members: Queen Mother Cersei Lannister · Queen Margaery Tyrell Deceased members: King Robert I · King Joffrey I · Princess Myrcella Baratheon Household: Lord Mace Tyrell · Grand Maester Pycelle · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Boros Blount · Ser Balon Swann · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Ilyn Payne · Lord Gyles Rosby · Ser Aron Santagar · Qyburn · Septa Eglantine Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Meryn_Trant?oldid=231054"