Mhaegen Season(s) 1, 2 First seen "The Wolf and the Lion" Last seen "The North Remembers" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Uncertain Allegiance Petyr Baelish Family {Barra} - daughter Portrayed by Antonia Christophers "And tell him I've been with no one else. I swear it m'lord, by the old gods and new. I don't want no jewels or nothing... just him. The King was always good to me." ―Mhaegen to Ned Stark[src] 

Mhaegen is a recurring character in the first and second seasons. She is played by guest star Antonia Christophers and debuts in "The Wolf and the Lion." Mhaegen is a prostitute and the mother of the royal bastard Barra. Contents[show] Biography Background 

Mhaegen is a prostitute working and living at a brothel in King's Landing. She works for Lord Petyr Baelish. She is known to King Robert Baratheon and is a former favorite of his. They have an illegitimate daughter named Barra. Season 1 

Hand of the King Eddard Stark visits Mhaegen while following the investigation of his predecessor Jon Arryn. She shows him Barra and they discuss her relationship with King Robert. Season 2 

Barra 

Goldcloaks led by Lord Janos Slynt break into Lord Baelish's establishment, along with a man who identifies Mhaegen as the mother of one of King Robert's bastards. She resists when the goldcloaks take Barra from her arms. Lord Slynt kills Barra personally after one of his men cannot go through with it. Mhaegen screams and weeps as the goldcloaks restrain her. Appearances Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mhaegen appears but is not named. She has a a light red hair and freckles on her nose and bosom. Ned estimates she cannot be more than fifteen years old. 

She is killed by Allar Deem, a goldcloak sent by Lord Slynt, when she tries to protect her baby daughter. She was not explicitly shown to be killed by the goldcloaks in the TV series, thus her status in the TV continuity is uncertain. In the next episode, Ros mentiones to Littlefinger that Mhaegen "works for him" and that "the Gold Cloaks killed her baby" so she most likely survived the encounter. See also Mhaegen on A Wiki of Ice and Fire References ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "The North Remembers" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mhaegen?oldid=230107"