This article is about the wife of the wildling Craster. For the mother of Hothor Umber, see Morag Umber. Morag Season(s) 4 First seen "Oathkeeper" Appeared in 2 episodes Status Alive Origin Craster's Keep Allegiance Craster Culture Free Folk Religion White Walkers Family {Craster} - father/husband Portrayed by Deirdre Monaghan "Meaning no disrespect, Ser Crow, Craster beat us... and worse. Your brother crows beat us and worse. We'll find our own way." ―Morag to Jon Snow[src] 

Morag is a character in Season 4, debuting in "Oathkeeper". She is one of the many wives of the wildling Craster, and is played by actress Deirdre Monaghan. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 4Edit 

Months after the mutiny, in which a group of oathbreaking brothers of the Night's Watch seize Craster's Keep, Morag delivers Craster's last son to Karl Tanner, leader of the mutineers, and tells him he's intended to be given to "the gods". Understanding she's referring to the White Walkers, Karl orders the baby to be abandoned at the Haunted Forest to be seized by the creatures. 

After a group of brothers of the Night's Watch raid Craster's Keep and kill all the mutineers, Jon Snow offers Craster's wives protection at Castle Black. Morag refuses, citing how the 'crows' led by Karl have treated them just like Craster did. Jon asks if they want to remain in Craster's Keep, causing Morag to spit on the ground and demand the place to be burned. Morag and the rest choose to find their own way. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels there is no mention of a wife of Craster by the name of Morag. The fate of Craster's wives after the mutineers abandon Craster's Keep hasn't been mentioned yet. 

Although her backstory isn't detailed on-screen, writer Bryan Cogman explained that he had specific ideas for the character: "The original idea behind Morag was that she was the first of the daughters who became Craster's wife. So she's the prime wife, if you will, and the matriarchal figure for these women. She knows she can't fight these mutineers and knows that without them, the White Walkers could destroy the wives. So there's a lot going on." See alsoEdit Craster's wives on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ http://winteriscoming.net/2013/09/season-4-new-casting-roundup/ ↑ "Oathkeeper" ↑ "First of His Name" ↑ MakingGameOfThrones.com Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Morag?oldid=221013"