"No gold!" ―Mord to Tyrion[src] Mord Season(s) 1 First seen "The Wolf and the Lion" Last seen "A Golden Crown" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance House Arryn Portrayed by Ciaran Bermingham 

Mord is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by guest star Ciaran Bermingham and debuts in "The Wolf and the Lion." Mord is the turnkey at the Eyrie. Tyrion Lannister has to negotiate with him after being thrown into the Sky Cells. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Mord is the gaoler in charge of the Sky Cells in the Eyrie. He is in the service of House Arryn. He is slow witted and follows the orders of his "betters."&nbsp; He is not so slow that he does not recognize opportunity when it is presented and he is the only reason Tyrion was able to make his play for freedom. Season 1Edit 

Mord beats Tyrion 

Tyrion Lannister is given into Mord's redoubtable care while a prisoner at the Eyrie. While Tyrion is trapped in the Sky Cells he tries to bargain for his freedom. Mord responds by beating him because he has no money to pay with. With great difficulty, Tyrion manages to bargain with Mord to allow him a fair hearing with Lysa Arryn, under the promise "a Lannister always pays his debts". Tyrion is able to manipulate the situation during his audience with Lysa to demand a trial by combat, which is won in his favor by Bronn. Set free, Tyrion asks for his money-purse back from Rodrik Cassel. As Tyrion turns to leave, true to his word, he tosses the gold-filled purse to Mord, who looks back in delightful astonishment as Tyrion exits the Eyrie. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Behind the scenesEdit 

Actor Peter Dinklage was not wearing padding, and the scene where Mord beats him with a truncheon, even though it was a prop one, left him with bruises. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mord is a petty, dimwitted, and cruel man who delights in tormenting prisoners and telling them how they are going to fall out of the cells to their deaths on the rocks six hundred feet below the castle. He took Tyrion's coat when he first got there and the nights are freezing. 

Mord is described as very unattractive person: he has small dark eyes and rotting brown teeth. The left side of his face is scarred where an axe cut off his ear and part of his cheek. He has a large belly and thick, stubby-fingered hands. 

After Petyr Baelish kills Lysa Arryn and puts the blame on Marillion, Mord tortures Marillion by plucking his eyes and cutting several of his fingers, till he breaks down and confesses falsely that he killed Lysa. When Sansa looks at Mord, she notices that he has gold teeth. 

"Mord" means "murder" in Norwegian, Danish, German, Swedish and Polish, though it is uncertain if George R. R. Martin had any knowledge of this when he created the name. See alsoEdit Mord on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "A Golden Crown" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Arryn Lord: Robin Arryn Heir: Seat: The Eyrie Lands: The Vale of Arryn Title(s): Lord of the Eyrie · Lord Paramount of the Vale · Warden of the East Ancestors: Artys Arryn · Sharra Arryn · Ronnel Arryn Deceased members: Jasper Arryn · Jon Arryn · Alys Arryn · Ronnel Arryn · Lysa Arryn Household: {Ser Vardis Egen} · {Ser Hugh of the Vale} · Mord · Petyr Baelish Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mord?oldid=227898"