Mors Martell Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "House Martell (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles Prince of Dorne Status Deceased Allegiance House Martell Family {Nymeria} - wife "My ancestor, Mors Martell, saw her and desired her. And proved that where armies failed, a tongue may succeed. Wedding his strength to hers, his spear to her sun, they subdued all his rivals together. After the tradition of her people, House Martell then ruled Dorne as princes, not kings." ―Oberyn Martell[src] 

Mors Martell the head of House Martell when the Rhoynar people, led by Nymeria, landed on Dorne a thousand years ago. Contents[show] HistoryEdit BackgroundEdit 

Mors Martell was one of the many nobles who vied for supremacy over the rest of the lords of Dorne. According to tradition, he fell in love with Princess Nymeria, the Rhoynar warrior-queen, the first time he saw her. The two married and joined their strengths, thus allowing House Martell to defeat all rival houses and unify Dorne under their rule. In the Rhoynish fashion, House Martell adopted the title of "Prince" as well as equal rights of primogeniture, regardless of gender. In the books Edit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mors Martell's history is the same. In The World of Ice and Fire book it is revealed that Mors bore the title of Lord of the Sandship - the seat of House Martell that would become Sunspear - and died in the Third Battle of the Boneway, slain by King Yorick V Yronwood, though Nymeria completed the conquest of Dorne, dubbed by historians as "Nymeria's War", and passed the crown to her daughter by Mors. See also Edit Mors Martell on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "House Martell (Histories &amp; Lore)" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Martell Lord: Prince Doran Martell Heir: Seat: Sunspear Lands: Dorne Title(s): Prince of Dorne · Lord of Sunspear Ancestors: Princess Nymeria · Prince Mors Martell · Prince Maron Martell · Princess Daenerys Martell · Queen Myriah Martell Current members: Prince Trystane Martell · Ellaria Sand · Obara Sand · Nymeria Sand · Tyene Sand · Sarella Sand · Elia Sand · Obella Sand · Dorea Sand · Loreza Sand Deceased members: Prince Lewyn Martell · Princess Elia Martell · Prince Oberyn Martell Household: Areo Hotah Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mors_Martell?oldid=229824"