Mycah Season(s) 1 Appeared in "The Kingsroad" Mentioned in "And Now His Watch is Ended" 
"The Children" Status Deceased Death Killed by The Hound 
"The Kingsroad" Portrayed by Rhodri Hosking Eddard Stark: "The butcher's boy – you rode him down?" Sandor Clegane: "He ran. Not very fast." — The Hound returns with Mycah's corpse.[src] 

Mycah is a minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Rhodri Hosking and only appears in "The Kingsroad." Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Mycah is a butcher's son who has befriended Arya Stark. Season 1Edit 

He travels the Kingsroad with his father as part of King Robert Baratheon's retinue. 

When he is encountered by Joffrey Baratheon practicing sword-fighting with Arya Stark, Joffrey confronts him for 'pretending to be a knight'. Despite his protests that the weapon he was using was only a stick, Joffrey forces him to pick it up. Joffrey sadistically begins pressing his sword against the boy's cheek, which prompts Arya to attack him. Mycah manages to escape but later is killed by the Hound under the orders of the prince much to Ned Stark's horror. Season 3Edit 

The Brotherhood Without Banners sentences the Hound to trial by combat for Mycah's murder after Arya accuses him. Season 4Edit 

He is mentioned by the Hound when he is trying to convince Arya to kill him. He says that Mycah "begged for mercy", that he killed him anyways, and that his saddle "smelled like butcher boy for weeks". AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood QuotesEdit Varys: "I was grievously sorry to hear of your troubles on the Kingsroad. We are all praying for Prince Joffrey's full recovery." Eddard Stark: "A shame you didn't say a prayer for the butcher's son." — Varys greeting Eddard Stark.[src] Arya Stark: "He's a liar and a coward and he killed my friend." Sansa Stark: "The Hound killed your friend." Arya Stark: "The Hound does whatever the prince tells him to do." Sansa Stark: "You're an idiot." Arya Stark: "You're a liar, and if you told the truth, Mycah would be alive." — Arya and Sansa fight.[src] In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Mycah is thirteen years old. He falls in with King Robert Baratheon's party as it returns to King's Landing from Winterfell and befriends Arya Stark. 

After the Hound defeats Beric Dondarrion, he teases Arya by telling her (without the slightest remorse or regret) "I rode him [Mycah] down and cut him in half, and laughed". 

According to Jeyne Poole, Mycah has been cut up in so many pieces that his body was brought back to his father in a bag. At first the poor man had thought it was a slaughtered pig. See alsoEdit Mycah on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Kingsroad" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "The Children" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mycah?oldid=214507"