Mychal Baratheon Season(s) 1 Mentioned in "A Golden Crown" Status Deceased Allegiance House Baratheon Family Orys Baratheon - father 
 Argalia Baratheon - mother 
Firstborn son of Orys Baratheon - brother 
Reginald Baratheon - nephew 
Flynn Baratheon - nephew 
Padraic Baratheon - nephew 
Steffon Baratheon I - nephew 
Wilyam Baratheon - nephew "Mychal Baratheon, the First of His Name. Born to Lord Orys Baratheon and Lady Argalia Baratheon." ―Excerpt from The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms[src] 

Mychal Baratheon is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is not expected to appear in the series, being long dead by the time it starts. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Mychal Baratheon is an early member of House Baratheon, the son of Orys Baratheon and Argalia Baratheon, and a distant ancestor of King Robert Baratheon and his brothers Stannis and Renly. Season 1Edit 

He has an entry in The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms, which notes the fact that he, along with all of his ancestors and descendents were born "black of hair". In the booksEdit 

Mychal Baratheon is mentioned only in the TV adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire and has no corresponding counterpart in the books. The page Ned Stark reads from The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms specifies that he was the son of Orys Baratheon, founder of House Baratheon. The full family tree of House Baratheon for all three centuries of its existence hasn't been revealed in the books yet, nor has specific mention been made of Orys' son, so it is possible that reference to Mychal Baratheon is based on notes from author George R.R. Martin. ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Golden Crown" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon Lord: None Heir: None Seat: Storm's End Lands: The Stormlands Title(s): Lords Paramount of the Stormlands · Lord of Storm's End Ancestors: Durran Godsgrief · Argilac the Arrogant · Orys Baratheon · Argalia Baratheon · Monica Baratheon · Mychal Baratheon · Axel Baratheon · Lyonel Baratheon Deceased members: Renly I · Robert I · Steffon Baratheon · Cassana Baratheon · King Stannis I Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Mychal_Baratheon?oldid=230364"