Night's Watch officer Season(s) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 First seen "You Win or You Die" Appeared in 9 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance The Night's Watch Portrayed by Dennis McKeever 

An unidentified Night's Watch officer is a recurring background character in the first, second, third, fourth and fifth seasons. He is portrayed by Dennis McKeever. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

This man is an officer in the Night's Watch, stationed at Castle Black. He is a Builder. Season 1Edit 

He is present for the induction of the new recruits at&nbsp;Castle Black. He calls for the builders after the&nbsp;Lord Commander's&nbsp;speech. Season 2Edit 

He takes part in Lord Commander Mormont's Great Ranging. He is among the officers that takes shelter inside Craster's Keep and is present when Mormont speaks with Craster about Mance Rayder's actions and plans. 

He is present when Craster expels the black brothers from his keep after Jon Snow is caught spying on the wildling leaving a newborn son in the woods. Season 3Edit 

He survives the White Walkers' attack against the Night's Watch camp atop the Fist of the First Men and joins the survivors' march back into the Haunted Forest all the way to Craster's Keep. 

He is present at the hall of Craster's Keep when a group of deserters commits mutinies against the authority of Lord Commander Mormont and break guest right by murdering Craster. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Image GalleryEdit The Night's Watch Officer alongside Jeor Mormont and Craster. The Night's Watch survivors arrive at Craster's Keep. 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit 

During Season 1 it was believed McKeever was playing Othell&nbsp;Yarwyck and Brian Fortune was playing Bowen Marsh, based on comments by Fortune and McKeever's character delivering&nbsp;a line said by Yarwyck in the books. Neither of them were absolutely confirmed to be playing these characters, however, as their names were never stated in on-screen dialogue or in the credits. McKeever reappeared in Seasons 2 and 3 in a background role in the Great Ranging, in which Yarwyck didn't partake. In Season 4, Fortune's character was directly identified in on-screen dialogue as Yarwyck, and Michael Condron was subsequently cast as Marsh for Season 5. This establishes that Fortune's character should always be considered to have been Yarwyck, while McKeever was simply playing an unnamed Night's Watch officer. While this might technically be a retcon, Season 1 never absolutely confirmed which characters these actors were playing, so it introduced no internal continuity errors. 

In the books, about a dozen loyal Night's Watch members managed to escape from the Mutiny at Craster's Keep and return to Castle Black. The TV series, however, explicitly showed Jon Snow, Samwell Tarly, Edd, and Grenn are the only black brothers who went on the expedition north of the Wall who managed to return alive. The books also never explicitly showed what happened to the Mutineers after the mutiny, but the TV series did, and no other loyalists were shown to have survived. 

References ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "What is Dead May Never Die" ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Night%27s_Watch_Officer_2?oldid=232548"