Norren Season(s) Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series First seen "Iron From Ice" Last seen "Iron From Ice" Status Uncertain Allegiance House Forrester Culture Northmen Portrayed by Geoff Leesley "He's a drunk, a liar, and an arrogant prick!" ―Bowen to Gared Tuttle[src] 

Norren was a warrior in the service of House Forrester. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Norren's family faithfully has served House Forrester for centuries. His squire is Bowen, who views serving him with little joy. Norren serves in the Northern army, and fought at the Battle of the Whispering Wood, where he claims to have been an integral part in the capture of Jaime Lannister.  "Iron From Ice"Edit 

Shortly before the events of the Red Wedding, Norren is seen outside The Twins boasting to House Forrester's men that he captured Jaime Lannister at the Battle of the Whispering Wood. This was then reduced to an integral part, and then a minor part, though Norren is still proud of it. The men joke at his expense. Lord Gregor Forrester emerges from his tent and explains some of Norren's history. Later, he runs out of wine, and has Bowen fetch some more. Gared joins him, and Bowen reveals his disdain for serving Norren. 

Once the slaughter begins, Norren fights the Frey men, killing several with his axe and a Forrester shield. If Gared leaves behind Bowen, he will ask about his squire's whereabouts, showing concern for him. Seeing an opportunity, Lord Forrester and Gared flee, while Norren charges back into the fray. It is left uncertain as to whether Norren got out alive or was killed by the Frey men. AppearancesEdit Telltale Game Series appearances Iron From Ice The Lost Lords The Sword in the Darkness Sons of Winter A Nest of Vipers The Ice Dragon 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Forrester Lord: Lord Rodrik Forrester or Lord Asher Forrester Heir: Ryon Forrester Seat: Ironrath (formerly) Lands: The Wolfswood, The North Title(s): Lord of Ironrath (formerly) Ancestors: Gerhard Forrester · Cedric Forrester· Thorren Forrester Current members: Elsera Snow · Josera Snow · Talia Forrester · Ryon Forrester · Mira Forrester (player-determined) Deceased members: Gregor Forrester · Elissa Forrester · Rodrik Forrester (player-determined) · Asher Forrester (player-determined) · Mira Forrester (player-determined) · Ethan Forrester Household: Royland Degore · {Ortengryn} · Gared Tuttle · Duncan Tuttle · Malcolm Branfield · Beskha · {Norren} · Bowen · Erik · {Thermund} · {Gared's father} · {Gared's sister} ReferencesEdit ↑ "Iron From Ice" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Norren?oldid=227763"