Old Man Season(s) 3 Appeared in "The Rains of Castamere" Status Deceased; killed by Ygritte Allegiance The Night’s Watch Portrayed by Sean Buckley "Let me stand at least. Let me go with a bit of dignity." ―The old man to Tormund[src] 

An old man is a character who appears in the third season episode "The Rains of Castamere". Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 3Edit 

The Old man breeds horses for the Night's Watch. In return, the Watch protects him from horse thieves. Orell wargs and notes that he has eight good horses, gold, and some proper steel. The gang wants to kill the old man, but Jon is against it. As they make a run for his farm, Jon deliberately hits a stone with his sword to warn the old man, and he attempts to flee but is eventually cornered and apprehended from his dying horse. He asks that they let him stand up before being killed, which Tormund accepts respectfully. Orell suggests that Jon kill him, to prove he is one of them. When he cannot, Ygritte shoots an arrow into the old man, killing him. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the old man appears to be a traveller, not a resident of Queenscrown. He does not breed horses and has no ties to the Night's Watch. 

The Thenns found the old man sitting by a fire inside roofless inn. They took his horse and looted his saddlebags. Styr ordered Jon to kill him. The old man did not try to fight or escape. He said nothing, just looked at Jon in accusation and appeal. Jon knew that the old man was doomed in any case; there was nothing Jon could say or do to save him; refusing to kill him would blow Jon's cover and might cost his life, while many people depend on his safe return to Castle Black; yet Jon's conscience would not let him kill harmless innocent person. 

Ygritte urged Jon to kill the old man, to prove that he is no crow, but one of the Free Folk, but Jon still refused. Styr said "I see a crow and a crow wife". Ygritte shouted "I'm no crow wife!", snatched her knife and slit the old man's throat, yelling at Jon "You know nothing!". Styr said something in the Old Tongue that might have been telling the Thenns to kill Jon, but then Summer appeared and attacked the Thenns. In the confusion, Jon fought and killed several of the Thenns, jumped on the old man's mare and rode away. One of the wildlings (perhaps Ygritte) shot an arrow at Jon, hitting him at his right thigh, but he did not stop. ReferencesEdit ↑ The Rains of Castamere Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Old_man?oldid=230148"