Nan Season(s) 1 First seen "Lord Snow" Last seen "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Also known as Old Nan Status Deceased Origin Winterfell Allegiance House Stark Family Hodor - great-grandson Portrayed by Margaret John Old Nan: "I know a story about a crow." Bran Stark: "I hate your stories." Old Nan: "I know a story about a boy who hated stories." — Old Nan's storytelling[src] 

Old Nan is a recurring character in the first season. She was played by Margaret John and debuts in "Lord Snow." Margaret John passed away on 2 February 2011, after the completion of filming for the first season. According to the writers the character passed away between the first and second season. Old Nan is an elderly servant at Winterfell, known for her storytelling. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Old Nan is an elderly woman living in Winterfell. She is a retired servant of House Stark known for her tale-telling abilities. She has entertained the children of Eddard and Catelyn with stories throughout their childhoods. Her great grandson Hodor is a stable hand at the castle. Season 1Edit 

After Catelyn Stark leaves for King's Landing, Old Nan sits by Bran Stark’s bedside to watch him. She suggests the story of Duncan the Tall and Bran replies that he hates her stories —he prefers the scary ones. She retorts that he is a "sweet summer child" who knows nothing about fear, and tells him that fear is for the winter and for the Long Night, a winter season thousand of years ago that lasted a generation, in which those who didn't freeze to death had to face the White Walkers, who ventured south for the first time and swept through Westeros. Theon Greyjoy interrupts another story and says that he would go mad if he was left alone with Old Nan. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Behind the scenesEdit 

Actress Margaret John, who played Old Nan, passed away only two months before Season 1 began to air, though all of her scenes had already been completed. The character does appear during the second book, however, in the TV series canon the showrunners decided to retire the character out of respect, so Old Nan is assumed to have quietly passed away between Season 1 and Season 2. Image galleryEdit Old Nan telling Bran Stark a story. 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Old Nan is the oldest person living at Winterfell. She came to Winterfell to act as wetnurse for a Brandon Stark, which one is unsure, only that his mother had died birthing him. This Brandon Stark is believed to be either the brother of Lord Rickard Stark or a brother of his father. She's retired but tells stories and legends to the Stark children. She lost two sons in Robert's Rebellion and her grandson during the Greyjoy Rebellion, while her daughters moved away and died. Her only surviving family is her great-grandson, the gentle, slow-witted Hodor. 

In the books, it is Old Nan and not Osha who interprets the arrival of the Red Comet to mean the return of dragons. 

"Nan" might be short for "Nymeria". When Arya Stark is on the run after escaping from King's Landing, one of the aliases she uses is "Nymeria", but she says to call her "Nan" for short. 

Among the stories she used to tell the Stark boys are: The last hero - who fought the White Walkers in the Long Night The ice dragon Harrenhal and Harren the Black The Night's King Symeon Star-Eyes How the Children of the Forest taught the First Men to send messages by raven The Rat Cook The Mad Axe The Thing That Came In The Night 

Following the Sack of Winterfell, Old Nan is brought to the Dreadfort. Her fate is unknown. See alsoEdit Old Nan on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ The North Remembers on Westeros.org (book spoilers) ↑ "Lord Snow" ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Stark Lord: Prince Bran Stark Heir: Prince Rickon Stark Seat: Winterfell (formerly) Lands: The North Title(s): King in the North · Lord Paramount of the North · Lord of Winterfell Ancestors: Brandon the Builder · Brandon the Breaker · Dorren Stark · Rodrik Stark · Karlon Stark · Osric Stark · Torrhen Stark · Cregan Stark Current members: Sansa Stark · Arya Stark · Benjen Stark Deceased members: Rickard Stark · Brandon Stark · Lyanna Stark · Eddard Stark · King Robb Stark · Talisa Stark · Catelyn Stark · Jon Snow Household: {Ser Rodrik Cassel} · {Maester Luwin} · {Jory Cassel} · {Vayon Poole} · {Septa Mordane} · Jeyne Poole · Osha · Hodor · Farlen · {Old Nan} · Mikken · Varly · Heward · Wyl · Tomard · Tommy · Jacks 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Old_Nan?oldid=229684"