Olyvar Season(s) 3, 4, 5 First seen "Kissed by Fire" Appeared in 7 episodes (see below) Status Alive Age 27 in Season 6 Origin King's Landing Allegiance House Baelish Portrayed by Will Tudor "I'm wildly expensive." ―Olyvar to Oberyn Martell[src] 

Olyvar is a recurring character in the third, fourth, and fifth seasons. He is played by guest star Will Tudor, and debuts in "Kissed by Fire". Olyvar is a spy and a prostitute in the employ of Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish, specializing in homosexual relations. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 3Edit 

Olyvar poses as Loras Tyrell's squire during a sparring match. He makes flirtatious advances toward Loras and the two later have sex. Olyvar discovers that Loras is due to be married to Sansa Stark, and relays this information to Littlefinger shortly thereafter. Olyvar implies that noblemen in Loras' position make up the bulk of his clientele. Season 4Edit 

Olyvar and Prince Oberyn. 

Olyvar has been left in charge of&nbsp;Littlefinger's brothels, presumably replacing Ros. When Oberyn Martell and Ellaria Sand arrive in King's Landing, they visit the brothel and Olyvar presents three prostitutes to the couple. After Ellaria chooses one and dismisses the other two, Oberyn turns his attentions to Olyvar. The latter protests that he's not on offer, before giving in and admitting he's just "wildly expensive". Oberyn asks if Olyvar has ever been with a prince before, orders him to remove his clothes and grabs him by the crotch. However, they are interrupted when Oberyn overhears a pair of Lannister men singing "The Rains of Castamere". 

Olyvar later takes part in a small orgy involving Oberyn, Ellaria and two other prostitutes. When the latter attempts to "share" him with Oberyn, Olyvar politely refuses her, claiming to have "not acquired the taste" for women. He then presses Oberyn to divulge his own preference. The Prince, however, explains his rather fluid approach to sexuality, a common trait among the Dornish. Olyvar and the other prostitutes depart when Tywin Lannister unexpectedly arrives to speak with Oberyn. Season 5Edit 

Olyvar continues to see Loras on a regular basis, though it's unclear if their arrangement is personal or professional. Around the time of Tywin Lannister's funeral, Olyvar is cuddling with Loras Tyrell post coitus, discussing the possibility of visiting Dorne or anywhere far away from King's Landing, when Margaery walks in. Staring down Olyvar, she admonishes Loras for making them late for supper with King Tommen, and tells Olyvar to leave. 

Olyvar later plays the role of the Father with a fake beard when the High Septon visits the brothel, while a collection of female prostitutes play the rest of the Seven. He breaks character to make a snide remark about the High Septon's choice, and to remind him that two prostitutes will cost him extra. Moments later, the brothel is attacked by Sparrows, led by Lancel Lannister, who seize the High Septon. Olyvar attempts to tell them that they will have to answer to Baelish, but they strike him across the face and remove his fake beard. 

Olyvar is present when the brothel is attacked again by the Sparrows, this time having formed into the Faith Militant with Cersei Lannister's permission. Again, he is struck when he tells them they will have to answer to Baelish, but this time, the Faith Militant have targeted the brothel's homosexual patrons and prostitutes who have been caught in the act. Since Olyvar is fully clothed, he is not suspected of homosexuality, and is able to flee the brothel when he sees the Sparrows castrate both the homosexual patron and the prostitute. 

Olyvar is later called to give evidence at the "Holy Inquest" of Loras, who is accused of "fornication", "buggery", and "blasphemy", though it is clear he is doing it on Cersei's instructions. Despite their previous, affectionate relationship, Olyvar turns on his lover, and provides the High Sparrow with testimony that allows him to pursue formal charges against Loras, who attempts to attack Olyvar but is restrained. Olyvar's testimony also leads to Margaery's arrest for perjury. 

Later, during a meeting between Lady Olenna and Petyr Baelish, Baelish reveals that Cersei summoned him back to King's Landing for "a piece of information" he had, revealing that Cersei forced Baelish to give up Olyvar so she could build up a case against Loras and Margaery. He tells Olenna that he will give her the same thing he gave Cersei: a handsome young man —implied, in this instance, to be Lancel. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Image GalleryEdit 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit 

In the books, Loras Tyrell is left deeply mourning the loss of his great love Renly Baratheon, and famously swears that he will never love again, saying "When the sun has set, no candle can replace it." Several critics including Westeros.org were upset that Loras has sex with Olyvar in "Kissed by Fire", because it seemed rather sudden, as if Renly's death did not deeply impact him. Writer Bryan Cogman, however, subsequently did an interview with Westeros.org, and specifically addressed this concern: changes in adaptation meant that Loras had to have sex with Olyvar, to let it slip that he would marry Sansa, as part of the plot mechanics of the Lannister/Tyrell rivalry. However, Cogman explained, his earlier drafts of the episode actually included longer scenes which made it explicitly clear that Loras is not finished mourning Renly. Rather, Loras was very depressed and lonely, and in effect "drowning his sorrows" by engaging in casual sex in the hope that it would make himself feel better, but it ultimately made Loras feel more emotionally distraught and reminded of how much he misses Renly. Cogman lamented that "as we get closer to production a lot of trims have to be made and this scene was one where I had to do that," and he acknowledged that cutting the scene gave the unintended impression that Loras was moving past Renly, when he actually isn't. 

Olyvar appears to have taken over Ros's duties both in-universe and behinds the scenes: he has taken over her management duties at the brothel, and has taken her narrative role as the "go-to" prostitute character present during illicit goings-on in King's Landing. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no prostitute named Olyvar. At first, the character in the series assumes part of the role of Dontos Hollard, who obtains the information not from Loras Tyrell but from Sansa Stark herself, who is unaware that Dontos works for Littlefinger. Later in the TV series, when Cersei gives Olyvar to the Faith Militant so that he admits to sleeping with Loras Tyrell, he is taking the role of the Blue Bard, a singer in Margaery's retinue, whom Qyburn - under Cersei's orders - tortures into accusing her of fornication and sleeping with other men as well (all false charges). ReferencesEdit ↑ Said to be 25 in Season 4's "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "Kissed by Fire" ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "The Wars to Come" ↑ "High Sparrow (episode)" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy (episode)" ↑ "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" ↑ "The Gift (episode)" ↑ Westeros.org, Season 3 Interview: Bryan Cogman. v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baelish Lord: Lord Petyr Baelish Heir: None Seat: The Eyrie (regency) / Baelish Keep / Harrenhal (nominally) Lands: The Vale of Arryn /The Riverlands (nominally) Title(s): Lord Protector of the Vale 
Lord Regent of the Eyrie 
Lord of Baelish Keep 
Lord of Harrenhal (nominally) 
Acting Warden of the East Current members: "Alayne" Deceased members: Baelish · Baelish · Baelish Household: Lothor Brune · Olyvar · {Ros} Overlord: House Frey / House Arryn v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Olyvar?oldid=232991"