The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Osmund Kettleblack Season(s) 5 First seen "Sons of the Harpy" Titles Ser Status Alive Allegiance The Kingsguard Portrayed by Unidentified 

Osmund Kettleblack is a background character in the fifth season. He is played by an unidentified extra and first appears in "Sons of the Harpy". Ser Osmund is a knight and a member of the Kingsguard, defending King Tommen Baratheon. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 5Edit 

Five members of the Kingsguard escort King Tommen Baratheon to the steps before the Great Sept of Baelor so the king can meet with the High Sparrow. Members of the Faith Militant block them. AppearancesEdit Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Osmund Kettleblack is one of three brothers, sons of a grizzled man-at-arms called Oswell 'Kettleblack', who enter the service of Queen Cersei during A Clash of Kings. Like his brothers, he's a mercenary and boasts of having served in the Disputed Lands and the Stepstones with the Gallant Men - a sellsword company - fighting for Lys and then Tyrosh. He claims of having been knighted in the battlefield by the, conveniently for him, now-dead Ser Robert Stone (who might have been a bastard from the Vale, or made up by Osmund). 

Lancel hired Osmund and his brothers Osney and Osfryd at Cersei's command. He had no way to know the three were Littlefinger's henchmen, whom he carefully planted, as he explained Sansa much later. 

Ser Osmund is named to the Kingsguard after Ser Boros Blount is dismissed on grounds of cowardice for giving up Prince Tommen to agents of Tyrion Lannister to save his own life. Following the Battle of the Blackwater, Ser Boros is reinstated after the death of Ser Mandon Moore and the desertion of Sandor Clegane. Unlike the case of the show, in the novels the roster of the Kingsguard is quickly completed. 

Ser Osmund is one of the witnesses in Tyrion's trial, following his brothers. While Osney and Osfryd's testimony is partially true, Osmund lies outright: he swears that Joffrey had told him that Tyrion meant to murder him and be a king in his place. 

Jaime thinks of Ser Osmund disdainfully "What was Cersei thinking when she gave this one a white cloak?" and does not like Osmund's evasive answers about his background and how he was knighted. But, since he is likely to know how to use a sword and shield, Jaime decides not to press the matter. 

When Jaime releases Tyrion, Tyrion tells him that Osmund (alongside Lancel) is one of Cersei's lovers. Actually it is Osmund's brother Osney with whom Cersei slept, murdered the previous High Septon at her command, and collaborated in her scheme against Margaery. 

In "A Dance of Dragons", Cersei confesses that she has slept with Lancel and Osney. As a precaution, since she has no idea what Osmund and Osfryd have told, she claims that she bedded them too. Kevan, who shares Jaime's negative opinion about Osmund (and his brothers), takes advantage of Cersei's confession to remove Osmund and Osfryd from their positions and arrest them. 

While Osney is soon to be executed for his crimes, Osmund and Osfryd are given a choice: if they admit their guilt of fornication with the queen, they will be sent to the Wall; if not, they will face Ser Robert Strong. See alsoEdit Osmund Kettleblack on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Sons of the Harpy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of King's Landing Lord: King Tommen I Heir: Seat: Red Keep, King's Landing Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): King of the Andals and the First Men · Lord of the Seven Kingdoms · Protector of the Realm Current members: Queen Mother Cersei Lannister · Queen Margaery Tyrell Deceased members: King Robert I · King Joffrey I · Princess Myrcella Baratheon Household: Lord Mace Tyrell · Grand Maester Pycelle · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Boros Blount · Ser Balon Swann · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Ilyn Payne · Lord Gyles Rosby · Ser Aron Santagar · Qyburn · Septa Eglantine Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Osmund_Kettleblack?oldid=233173"