Othell Yarwyck Season(s) 1, 4, 5, 6 First seen "You Win or You Die" Appeared in 11 episodes (see below) Titles First Builder Status Alive Allegiance The Night's Watch 
House Yarwyck (by birth) Portrayed by Brian Fortune "We need to teach 'em a lesson about they way we deal with their kind! Three dozen bodies with slit throats tossed off the top of the Wall! Seems like that'd be a good lesson!" ―Othell Yarwyck[src] 

Othell Yarwyck is a recurring character in the first, fourth, fifth and sixth seasons. He is played by guest star Brian Fortune. He debuts in "You Win or You Die." Othell Yarwyck is the First Builder; a senior position within the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Othell Yarwyck is First Builder of the Night's Watch and a member of House Yarwyck, a noble house of the Westerlands sworn to Casterly Rock. He is based at Castle Black and is tasked with organizing the builders in maintaining the Wall and the castles belonging to the Watch. Season 1Edit 

Othell Yarwyck is present for the induction of the new recruits at Castle Black. He accompanies Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly into the Haunted Forest to witness them saying their oaths of loyalty to the Watch in front of a heart tree. He is among the first to congratulate them on entering the Watch, and is also present when Ghost returns with a corpse's hand in his mouth. 

Othell Yarwyck in the Haunted Forest witnessing Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly saying their oaths. 

 The party discover the corpses of Othor and Jafer Flowers and return them to Castle Black. He confirms Sam's discovery that the corpses do not smell, which is odd since they appear to have been dead for weeks. He like Jon is in favor of burning the bodies immediately, but is overruled by Lord Commander Mormont; who desires them to be examined first.  Season 2 Edit 

Othell Yarwyck remains at Castle Black while Lord Commander Mormont leads an expedition beyond the Wall. Season 4Edit 

Othell Yarwyck is one of the five black brothers to "judge"&nbsp;Jon Snow&nbsp;for his actions during his time with the&nbsp;wildlings. After Maester Aemon dimisses Jon, Yarwyck helps Aemon to his feet and to leave the hall. 

A young boy, Olly, arrives at Castle Black and tells the Night's Watch how a wildling raiding party massacred his village. Othell&nbsp;angrily proposes that they should send a message to the wildlings&nbsp;by killing the raiders and throwing their bodies off the top of the Wall. Many black brothers agree with him, but Ser Alliser Thorne&nbsp;argues that striking back is exactly what the wildlings want. 

Othell Yarwyck reluctantly sides with Alliser in the matter of not sealing the tunnel. 

Othell is present when ​Jon Snow&nbsp;proposes to seal Castle Black's tunnel due to the imminent attack by Mance Rayder's army. Alliser Thorne reminds Jon that the builders are responsible for maintaining the tunnel, and not the stewards. Alliser asks for Othell's opinion on Jon's proposal to seal the tunnel. Othell reluctantly sides with Alliser. Season 5 Edit 

Othell participates in the Choosing of the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. He counts the votes and informs Maester Aemon that there is a tie between Jon Snow and Alliser Thorne, which the Maester breaks by voting for Jon. 

Later, when the newly chosen Lord Commander Snow gives Janos Slynt the command of Greyguard and he refuses it, as it is in ruins, Jon tells Janos that Yarwyck can spare ten of his builders to help him rebuild the fort, and Yarwyck himself agrees. However, Janos repeatedly refuses the command and insults Jon, so he executes Lord Janos. 

He is later present in the common hall when Jon informs them of his plan to rescue the wildlings at Hardhome. Othell is vehemently against the idea of bringing the wildlings through the gates, even when Jon informs him that thousands of women and children will die if they do nothing. Othell is unmoved and says it would be better for them to die as it would mean less enemies for the Night's Watch. Stannis Baratheon quietly mutters the word "fewer" to himself, correcting Othell's grammar. 

When Jon Snow returns from Hardhome with thousands of wildlings and lets them in through the Wall, Othell Yarwyck is among the many black brothers who look at the wildlings and even their Lord Commander with disgust. 

Othell Yarwyck stabs Jon during the mutiny at Castle Black. 

Othell was the second person to stab Jon Snow and say "for the watch" during the Mutiny at Castle Black. After, he and the other mutineers leave their lord commander to bleed out in the snow. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy QuotesEdit "You knelt as boys. Rise now as men of the Night's Watch." ―Othell Yarwyck to Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly[src] Othell Yarwyck: "You'd bring the wildlings here, through our gates?" Jon Snow: "Men, women, and children will die by the thousands if we do nothing!" Othell Yarwyck: "Let them die, we got our own to worry about. Less enemies for us." — Othell Yarwyck and Jon Snow discuss the plan to let the wildlings through the Wall.[src] "For the Watch." ―Othell Yarwyck after stabbing Jon Snow during the mutiny at Castle Black.[src] Behind the scenesEdit 

During Season 1 it was believed that Fortune was playing Bowen Marsh, and&nbsp;Dennis McKeever was playing Yarwyck, based on comments by Fortune and McKeever's character delivering&nbsp;a line said by Yarwyck in the books. Neither of them were absolutely confirmed to be playing these characters, however, as their names were never stated in on-screen dialogue or in the credits. McKeever reappeared in Seasons 2 and 3 in a background role in the Great Ranging, in which Yarwyck didn't partake. In Season 4, Fortune's character was directly identified in on-screen dialogue as Yarwyck, and Michael Condron was subsequently cast as Marsh for Season 5. This establishes that Fortune's character should always be considered to have been Yarwyck, while McKeever was simply playing an unnamed Night's Watch officer. While this might technically be a retcon, Season 1 never absolutely confirmed which characters these actors were playing, so it introduced no internal continuity errors. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Othell Yarwyck&nbsp;is described as lantern-jawed. It is not explained how he, a highborn Westerman, ended up at the Wall. 

He is not present when Jon Snow is taken before Alliser Thorne and Janos Slynt. Yarwyck, like Bowen Marsh, is initially helpful and supports Jon ever since he is elected to be the Lord Commander. To Jon's opinion, Marsh and Yarwyck are no lickspittles, and that was to the good, but they are seldom any help either. More and more, he finds he knows what they are going to say before he asks them. 

Jon sends Yarwyck with his Builders to restore the Nightfort. Later he returns to Castle Black. 

However, both of them gradually grow angry and disapproving of Jon's conduct, especially his decision to bring the Wildlings south of the Wall and to accept them to the Night's Watch. Yarwyck claims the Wildlings are more trouble than they’re worth, sloppy, careless and lazy, and while there are some good woodworkers among them, they won’t do as they are told. Marsh and Yarwyck also object to Jon's decision to man the abandoned forts with the Wildlings: Bowen Marsh states that "We should be fitting them for nooses, not giving them our castles", and Yarwyck says "My lord had as well present us with a pack of wolves and ask which we’d like to tear our throats out." 

When Jon consults with his subordinates what to do about the Wildlings in Hardhome, they all object, and Yarwyck claims it is a cursed place, even Benjen Stark used to say that. After receiving the distress message from Cotter Pyke, Yarwyck advises Jon to send Tormund there. 

Yarwyck is in league with Bowen Marsh and the other who oppose Jon in his alliance with the Free Folk. He is present when Jon announces that he intends to ride to Winterfell and kill Ramsay Bolton. Jon notices him and Marsh slipping out with all their men behind them, but unwisely disregards that. It is not mentioned whether Yarwyck is one of those who stab Jon, following Wick Whittlestick and Marsh. See alsoEdit Othell Yarwyck on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ http://winteriscoming.net/2014/04/new-details-about-season-4-episodes-2-and-3/ ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "Mockingbird" ↑ "The House of Black and White" ↑ "High Sparrow" ↑ "Kill the Boy" ↑ "The Dance of Dragons" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Othell_Yarwyck?oldid=229580"