The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Palla Season(s) 2 First seen "The North Remembers" Last seen "A Man Without Honor" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Status Uncertain Allegiance House Stark Family Farlen - father Portrayed by Joy Carleton 

Palla is a recurring background character in the second season. She is played by an uncredited Joy Carleton and debuts in "The North Remembers." Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Palla is the daughter of Farlen, the kennelmaster of Winterfell. Season 2Edit 

Palla carries a large pallet of straw through the Great Hall of Winterfell. Bran Stark's direwolf Summer passes by and she becomes uncomfortable by the direwolf's proximity. 

Farlen is defiant when Winterfell is occupied by Theon Greyjoy and his men. Palla helps him up when he is beaten for his words. They are both present when Theon Greyjoy assembles the people after the escape of Bran and Rickon Stark and unveils two charred corpses. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis GalleryEdit Winterfell gathers to witness Bran surrender to Theon in "The Old Gods and the New". 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Palla is also the daughter of Farlen the kennelmaster. She is gang raped by the ironborn including Drennan when Winterfell is captured and Theon has the men whipped to show people of Wintefell he means to be just, although they still blame him for the rape, which Theon considers unfair. Later, after Bran and Rickon escape he threatens Palla's safety if her father will not lead the search to find them with the Winterfell dogs. When the northern collaborator "Reek" - actually a disguised Ramsay Snow - offers to get Dreadfort men to aid Theon against a siege of Northmen led by Ser Rodrik Cassel and other northern nobles, he demands Palla as his reward. 

Following the Sack of Winterfell, Palla is brought to the Dreadfort. Her fate is unknown. See alsoEdit Palla on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Stark Lord: Prince Bran Stark Heir: Prince Rickon Stark Seat: Winterfell (formerly) Lands: The North Title(s): King in the North · Lord Paramount of the North · Lord of Winterfell Ancestors: Brandon the Builder · Brandon the Breaker · Dorren Stark · Rodrik Stark · Karlon Stark · Osric Stark · Torrhen Stark · Cregan Stark Current members: Sansa Stark · Arya Stark · Benjen Stark Deceased members: Rickard Stark · Brandon Stark · Lyanna Stark · Eddard Stark · King Robb Stark · Talisa Stark · Catelyn Stark · Jon Snow Household: {Ser Rodrik Cassel} · {Maester Luwin} · {Jory Cassel} · {Vayon Poole} · {Septa Mordane} · Jeyne Poole · Osha · Hodor · Farlen · {Old Nan} · Mikken · Varly · Heward · Wyl · Tomard · Tommy · Jacks Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Palla?oldid=232545"