The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Paxter Redwyne Season(s) 1 Mentioned in "The Wolf and the Lion" Titles Lord of the Arbor Status Alive Origin The Arbor Allegiance House Tyrell 
House Redwyne Family Olenna Tyrell - aunt and mother-in-law 
Bethany Redwyne - relative "Lord Redwyne likes his boys very young, I hear." ―Varys to Petyr Baelish[src] 

Paxter Redwyne is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He has only been mentioned in dialogue. He is the Lord of the Arbor and the head of House Redwyne. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Paxter Redwyne is the Lord of the Arbor and the head of House Redwyne, a vassal family of House Tyrell of Highgarden. Season 1Edit 

Lord Petyr Baelish tries to entice Lord Varys to one of this brothels mentioning how he will accommodate any preference or inclination. Lord Varys already knows and lists the illicit practices his spies have uncovered including Lord Redwyne's sexual proclivity towards prepubescent boys. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, no mention is made of his sexual preferences – if this was indeed the "Lord Redwyne" that Lord Varys was referring to, and not some distant cousin. 

Lord Paxter Redwyne commands one of the largest fleets in the Seven Kingdoms which anchors at the Arbor. During Robert's Rebellion, he participated in the Siege of Storm's End; his fleet prevented the castle from being resupplied by sea. It is mentioned in passing that Stannis Baratheon still bears a grudge against Lord Redwyne for this. 

He is the first cousin and oldest friend of his liege lord, Mace Tyrell. He married Lord Mace's elder sister, Lady Mina of House Tyrell, and they have two sons, Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, and&nbsp;one daughter, Desmera. 

Lord Redwyne is described as "stoop-shouldered and thin, his bald head fringed by tufts of orange hair." 

Lord Redwyne doesn't side with Renly Baratheon in the War of the Five Kings, as Cersei held his twin sons hostage at the Red Keep. Following the Battle of the Blackwater, he is made an advisor on the Small Council alongside his liege Lord Mace Tyrell and Lord Mathis Rowan. At the breakfast prior to King Joffrey's wedding ceremony, he unveils a scale model of a war galley with 200 oars being built in the shipyards of the Arbor, which will be named King Joffrey's Valor, though it's currently unknown if the name was changed following Joffrey's death. See alsoEdit Paxter Redwyne on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Redwyne Lord: Lord Paxter Redwyne Heir: Seat: The Arbor Lands: The Reach Title(s): Lord of the Arbor Current members: Olenna Redwyne · Bethany Redwyne · Viola Redwyne Overlord: House Tyrell Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Paxter_Redwyne?oldid=227723"