Pentoshi servant Season(s) 1 Appeared in "Winter is Coming" Status Alive Origin Pentos Allegiance Illyrio Mopatis Portrayed by Rania Zouari "It's too hot, my lady!" ―The servant to Daenerys Targaryen[src] 

A Pentoshi servant is an unnamed minor character in the first season. She is played by guest star Rania Zouari and only appears in the series premiere. She is a servant, possibly a slave, in the manse of Illyrio Mopatis, a Magister of the Free City of Pentos. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Slavery is officially illegal in Pentos, due to a treaty it established a hundred years ago with the Free City of Braavos, which abhors slavery. However, wealthy and powerful magisters in Pentos such as Illyrio often flout these restrictions: his bronze-collared "servants" are actually slaves in all but name. Season 1Edit 

She is helping Daenerys Targaryen to prepare for her first meeting with Khal Drogo. She takes Daenerys' new dress from Viserys Targaryen when he holds it out. She warns Daenerys that her bath is too hot as she steps into it but Daenerys is unfazed. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, a chattering 16-year-old servant assists Daenerys with her bath. She does not give a warning but Daenerys does think about the temperature: "The water was scalding hot, but Daenerys did not flinch or cry out. She liked the heat. It made her feel clean. Besides, her brother had often told her that it was never too hot for a Targaryen. "Ours is the house of the dragon," he would say. "The fire is in our blood."" ―A Game of Thrones, Daenerys I[src] 

In Pentos, slavery is forbidden due to a treaty imposed by Braavos a hundred years before the events in the novels. However, the wealthy Magisters flout&nbsp;this law and keep bronze-collared "servants" that are slaves in all but name. Some Magisters are even involved in the slave trade. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Winter is Coming" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Pentoshi_servant?oldid=210151"