Prendahl na Ghezn Season(s) 3 Appeared in "Second Sons" Status Deceased Death Decapitated by Daario Naharis 
"Second Sons" Origin Essos Allegiance Second Sons Portrayed by Ramon Tikaram "That dragon bitch, she talks too much." ―Prendahl na Ghezn about Daenerys Targaryen[src] 

Prendahl na Ghezn is a minor character that appears in the third season episode "Second Sons". He is played by Ramon Tikaram. 

He is one of the captains of the Second Sons, a mercenary company. Contents[show] BiographyEdit 

Prendahl na Ghezn is a warrior and mercenary of Ghiscari origin. Alongside Mero, he is one of the captains of the Second Sons. Season 3Edit 

Along with his co-captain Mero, and their lieutenant Daario Naharis, Prendahl meets Daenerys Targaryen in her tent outside Yunkai. He rejects Daenerys' offer of breaking the Second Sons' contract with the Wise Masters and watches as Mero rudely snubs Daenerys' offers. 

Prendahl then discusses how to deal with Daenerys with Mero and Daario. To avoid facing her Unsullied Mero proposes that one of them slips into Daenerys' camp and assassinate her. He gives three different coins - a Meereenese, a Braavosi, and a Volantene - to the bedslave attending them and has her hand them out at random to the three of them, the one with the Braavosi coin being charged with the assassination. Daario winds up with the Braavosi coin. Later that night, after sneaking into Daenerys' pavilion, Daario presents Prendahl's head, along with that of Mero. He explains that he, Mero and Daario had "philosophical differences" about Daenerys' beauty and forced Daario to kill her, and he refused, and they fought him but lost. He then pledges the Second Sons to Daenerys. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Prendahl is a sellsword of Ghiscari descent and serves as the commander of the Stormcrows, a noted mercenary company which fights for the highest bidder. Daario Naharis&nbsp;and Sallor the Bald are the other two captains of the company. 

Prendahl and Sallor are killed by Daario. Later he sneaks into Daenerys's camp and produces the severed heads of his comrades as proof of his loyalty to her. See alsoEdit Prendahl na Ghezn on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Second Sons" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Prendahl_na_Ghezn?oldid=218070"