Preston Greenfield Season(s) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 First seen "Winter is Coming" Appeared in 15 episodes (see below) Titles Ser Status Alive Origin Greenfield Allegiance House Greenfield 
The Kingsguard Culture Andals Portrayed by John Doe "Ser Preston will be stationed here beside the... primary entertainment." ―Ser Jaime Lannister[src] 

Preston Greenfield is a recurring character in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth seasons. He is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in the series premiere. Ser Preston is a knight and a member of the Kingsguard, defending King Joffrey Baratheon as he defended King Robert Baratheon before him. Contents[show] Biography Season 1 

When Arya Stark was brought before King Robert Baratheon to answer for her possible involvement in the injury of Prince Joffrey, Ser Preston stands guard besides the King. 

He was among the guards that attacked Eddard Stark when the Hand of the King attempts to arrest Cersei Lannister, and take her children into his custody. Season 4 

After Jaime Lannister returns to King's Landing, he goes over with Ser Meryn Trant the placement of the Kingsguard members in defensive positions during Joffrey's wedding, assigning Ser Preston a place close to the wedding feast "primary entertainment". Season 5 

Five members of the Kingsguard escort King Tommen Baratheon to the steps before the Great Sept of Baelor so the king can meet with the High Sparrow. Members of the Faith Militant block them. Appearances Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Greenfield is a member of Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard. He is noted as the shortest member of the Kingsguard. He accompanied Robert on his boar hunting trip where he was mortally wounded. He pledges allegiance to Joffrey following Robert's death. 

Ser Preston is killed in the Riot of King's Landing and replaced by Ser Balon Swann, who has been mentioned in the series but not as part of the Kingsguard. In the series no Kingsguard is shown to be killed by the rioters. Ser Preston is later mentioned as being alive at the time of Joffrey's wedding, meaning he survived the riots in TV continuity. See also Preston Greenfield on A Wiki of Ice and Fire References ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Kingsguard Lord Commander: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Current members: 

Ser Boros Blount · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Balon Swann Former members: 

{Ser Barristan Selmy} · Sandor Clegane · {Ser Mandon Moore} · {Ser Meryn Trant} v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Baratheon of King's Landing Lord: King Tommen I Heir: Seat: Red Keep, King's Landing Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): King of the Andals and the First Men · Lord of the Seven Kingdoms · Protector of the Realm Current members: Queen Mother Cersei Lannister · Queen Margaery Tyrell Deceased members: King Robert I · King Joffrey I · Princess Myrcella Baratheon Household: Lord Mace Tyrell · Grand Maester Pycelle · Ser Jaime Lannister · Ser Gregor Clegane · Ser Preston Greenfield · Ser Arys Oakheart · Ser Boros Blount · Ser Balon Swann · Ser Osmund Kettleblack · Ser Ilyn Payne · Lord Gyles Rosby · Ser Aron Santagar · Qyburn · Septa Eglantine Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Preston_Greenfield?oldid=232592"