Protestor Season(s) 2 Appeared in "The Ghost of Harrenhal" Status Alive Portrayed by Edward Tudor Pole "Corruption! Yes, we are swollen, bloated, foul! Brother fornicates with sister in the bed of kings, and we're surprised when the fruit of their incest is rotten?! Yes, a rotten king!" ―The protestor to a crowd[src] 

A protestor is an unnamed minor character in the second season. He is played by guest star Edward Tudor Pole and only appears in "The Ghost of Harrenhal." He spreads dissent against the rule of King Joffrey Baratheon and House Lannister. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

He is a resident of King's Landing. Season 2Edit 

Tyrion and Bronn in the crowd listening to the protestor in "The Ghost of Harrenhal". 

The protestor is addressing a group of smallfolk on the streets of King's Landing. He says that the city is foul with corruption and blames Joffrey Baratheon as the product of incest between Queen Cersei and her brother Jaime Lannister. He also describes Joffrey as a puppet king to Tyrion Lannister, whom he refers to as a "twisted demon monkey", causing his audience to erupt in laughter. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, a number of individuals, particularly "begging brothers" - the lowest among the clergy of the Faith of the Seven - begin to speak out against King Joffrey, Queen Cersei and Tyrion, incensed by Stannis' letter and the growing famine in King's Landing due to House Tyrell closing off the Roseroad - through which most foodstuffs reach the capital. These men also speak out against the leadership of the Faith of the Seven - both the High Septon and the Most Devout -, accusing them of corruption and fornication. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Protestor?oldid=210148"