Pypar Season(s) 1, 3, 4 First seen "Lord Snow" Last seen "The Watchers on the Wall" 
"The Children" (corpse) Appeared in 13 episodes (see below) Mentioned in "Kill the Boy" Titles Steward Also known as Pyp Status Deceased Death Shot through the neck with an arrow by Ygritte during the Battle of Castle Black 
"The Watchers on the Wall" Origin Acorn Hall Allegiance The Night's Watch Portrayed by Josef Altin "I've never thrown a spear before, I've never held a sword with a proper edge, this is no place for me to be." ―Pypar[src] 

Pypar, commonly called Pyp, is a recurring character in the first, third and fourth seasons. He is played by guest star Josef Altin and debuts in "Lord Snow." Pypar is a steward in the Night's Watch and a friend to Jon Snow. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Pypar was sent to the Wall for refusing to grant sexual favors to a lord at Acorn Hall while working as a singer. The lord accused him of stealing and he was sentenced to the Night's Watch and now serves at Castle Black. Pypar usually lies and tells people that he was arrested for stealing a wheel of cheese to feed his sister, who had not eaten for three days (it isn't clear if he really even has a sister). Season 1Edit 

Pypar, along with Grenn and Rast, is beaten bloody by Jon Snow in the training yard at Castle Black. They later threaten Jon in the armory, but are encouraged to leave by Tyrion Lannister. Tyrion contrasts Pypar's background as a starving peasant to Jon's privileged upbringing in a warm castle with a master-at-arms eager to teach him in the art of combat. This encourages Jon to start training the others in swordplay, earning their respect. 

Sam joins Jon, Pypar, and Grenn in the training yard at Castle Black. Pypar and Grenn have become firm friends, with Pypar teasing Grenn about his slow wits. When Samwell joins the recruits and is beaten, Pypar holds Jon back as he attempts to interfere. He goes along with Jon Snow's plan to 'go easy' on the new recruit, annoying their Master-at-Arms Ser Alliser Thorne. 

Pypar, Jon and Samwell are assigned to the stewards while Grenn is assigned to the rangers. Jon is upset that he has not gotten his desired appointment to the rangers. Pypar is annoyed by Jon's sense of entitlement and awkwardly tells Jon and Samwell that he was really sent to the Wall when as a singer at a nobleman's hall he refused to grant sexual favors to a noble lord. He didn't want to tell strangers the real reason. Samwell asks Pypar, who has a good singing voice, for a song, but Pypar is too embarrassed by his confession and walks off. 

Pypar and Jon. Pypar and Grenn are among the men who witness the arrival of the bodies of Othor and Jafer Flowers to Castle Black. 

The dead men return as wights and Jon saves the Lord Commander from one of them. He is rewarded with the sword Longclaw and Grenn, Pypar and the others pass the sword around in the dining hall. 

Grenn, Pypar and Sam ride after Jon when he abandons his post at Castle Black following the death of his father. They convince him to return by reciting their oaths. Season 2Edit 

Pyp remains at Castle Black while his friends are Beyond the Wall on Lord Commander Jeor Mormont's great ranging. Season 3Edit 

Pyp is present when Jon Snow returns to Castle Black after escaping from the wildings and being shot with arrows by Ygritte. At first, he doesn't think Jon can recognize him and Sam with his injuries. Jon stares at both of them and says their names with relief before being carried inside. ​Season 4Edit 

Pyp and other members of the Night's Watch receive news from a boy name Olly about how his entire village was massacred by a wildling raiding party. The meeting is interrupted by a single horn blast, which is revealed to be Grenn and Edd, who have managed to escape the chaos that occurred at Craster's Keep. 

Later, Pyp is present in the dining hall when Jon Snow asks for volunteers to deal with the mutineers who are holed up at Craster's Keep. 

Pyp along with his friends discuss the wildling threat. 

The news of the wildling attack on Mole's Town reaches Castle Black. Sam is horrified by the news, believing he sent Gilly and her baby to their deaths. Pyp reminds Sam that he believed that everyone who went with Commander Mormont had died. Despite the odds, Jon, Sam, Grenn, and Edd all made it back to Castle Black alive. 

Pypar's death at the hands of Ygritte. 

As he is preparing for the attack on Castle Black, he starts shaking, and Sam comes over to comfort and empower him to conduct his duties. As Mance Rayder's army attacks Castle Black, Pypar defends the bridge with a crossbow but continually missed killing members of their army before retreating with Sam. Pypar and Sam get to cover, and continue to try to kill the members of Mance Rayder's army. When Pypar successfully kills a wildling, he gushes over this achievement with Sam telling him he has more to do. As he goes to shoot again, Ygritte launches an arrow at Pypar's throat, fatally wounding him. As he is struggling and choking on his own blood, Sam holds his head and tells him it will be alright until he dies. 

Pypar's body being burned with the other fallen brothers. 

After the arrival of&nbsp;Stannis Baratheon and his forces, Pypar is among the numerous bodies of fallen black brothers burned in Castle Black's courtyard. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children QuotesEdit "How do one hundred and two men stop one hundred thousand?" ―Pypar[src] "If you're afraid of a band of wildlings, how in the seven hells did you kill a White Walker?" ―Pypar to Sam[src] "I've never heard you swear before." ―Pypar to Sam after he roars at him to let Gilly into Castle Black[src] "I got one, right through the heart, he's dead." ―Pypar to Sam during the battle[src] Image galleryEdit Pyp and Sam welcoming Jon when he arrives at Castle Black in "Mhysa". Pyp discusses with Jon, Grenn, Sam and Eddison in "The Mountain and the Viper". Pyp dying as Sam comforts him during the battle for Castle Black in "The Watchers on the Wall". 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit 

Prior to being cast in the role of Gendry, Joe Dempsie had auditioned for Pypar. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Pyp is an actor who wandered the Seven Kingdoms with a troupe of players. He can imitate other people's voices and boasts that he can identify where in Westeros someone has come from just by their accent. He is named to the rangers. George R.R. Martin has stated that he is a big fan of J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings, in which main character Frodo Baggins's best friend is Samwise Gamgee, called Sam for short. Similarly, Jon Snow's best friend Samwell Tarly (also called "Sam" for short) is also an overweight, not martially skilled Everyman character who enjoys reading stories in books. Moreover, Pypar (called Pyp) for short, has a similar name to Frodo's other companion Pippin Took (sometimes shortened to "Pip"). Thus both Jon Snow and Frodo Baggins have two companions named "Sam and Pyp". 

While the ranging force travels beyond the Wall, Pyp remains at Castle Black. He takes part in the Battle of Castle Black. 

Despite Pyp and Grenn dying in the TV series, so far the two are still alive and well in the books. 

The show scene where Sam holds Pyp's head in his last moments is maybe based on the book scene in which Sam comforts the fatally-injured Jeor Mormont during the Mutiny at Craster's Keep. See alsoEdit Pypar on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, Night's Watch - Pyp entry ↑ "Lord Snow" ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "Fire and Blood" ↑ "Mhysa" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "Oathkeeper" ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" ↑ "The Watchers on the Wall" ↑ "The Children" ↑ Meet the British stars of Game of Thrones v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Pypar?oldid=228381"