Qotho Season(s) 1 First seen "Winter is Coming" Last seen "Baelor" Appeared in 6 episodes (see below) Titles Bloodrider Status Deceased Death Killed by Ser Jorah Mormont for attacking and threatening Daenerys Targaryen 
"Baelor" Origin Dothraki sea Allegiance Khal Drogo Religion Great Stallion Portrayed by Dar Salim "You do not command me, Khaleesi." ―Qotho to Daenerys Targaryen[src] 

Qotho is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by guest star Dar Salim and debuts in the series premiere. Qotho is a bloodrider to Khal Drogo. He is killed by Jorah Mormont after Drogo falls ill. Qotho tries to prevent Mirri Maz Duur from treating Drogo and Jorah intervenes. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Qotho is a Dothraki bloodrider in the service of Khal Drogo. He is one of Drogo's closest allies and a stalwart warrior who favors the Arakh. Season 1Edit 

Qotho, alongside Cohollo and Haggo, accompanies Khal Drogo to view his bride, Daenerys Targaryen. Qotho is present for the wedding of Drogo and Daenerys and then rides East with them to Vaes Dothrak. When a drunken Viserys threatens Daenerys and her unborn child, Qotho breaks his arm and then restrains him while Drogo pours molten gold over his head, killing him. 

Qotho is present when Drogo declares that he will lead the khalasar across the Narrow Sea and invade Westeros in vengeance for the attempted assassination of Daenerys. Qotho participates in the Khalasar's raid of a village in Lhazar, a peaceful country to the south-east of Vaes Dothrak. When Mago defies Drogo, Qotho, along with his fellow bloodriders, steps forward to defend&nbsp;Drogo's honor, only for the Khal to take matters in his own hands. He objects to the Lhazareen godswife Mirri Maz Duur treating a small wound Drogo takes, calling her Maegi. 

Drogo's wound festers and he becomes seriously ill. He falls from his horse in front of the Khalasar, a sign of weakness. While Cohollo comes down from his horse and kneels to Drogo's side, Qotho and Haggo remain mounted. Daenerys orders the khalasar to take camp, but Qotho objects, though he ultimately relents. Later Daenerys calls for Duur, who says that only blood magic can save him. Duur claims that she needs to kill Drogo's horse. Qotho objects to the ritual and a fight ensues; Qotho pushes Dany to the ground causing her premature labor. Ser Jorah Mormont intervenes and engages Qotho in a vicious duel. Though Qotho takes the upper hand with his younger age and superior speed, his arakh is unable to penetrate Jorah's armor, giving Jorah enough time to finish him. Season 5Edit 

Jorah mentions to a slave trader, Malko, that he killed Qotho in single combat, which convinces Malko to take Jorah and Tyrion Lannister to Meereen in order to sponsor Jorah in the fighting pits that Daenerys has re-opened. At the sale, however, Malko changes the story slightly and claims that Jorah actually killed Khal Drogo. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Image galleryEdit Qotho restrains Viserys Targaryen as Drogo kills him in "A Golden Crown". Qotho looks on as Daenerys Targaryen tends to the injured Drogo after he falls from his horse in "Baelor". Qotho an altar of the Great Shepherd in Lhazar. 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Qotho is a skilled warrior, but he is also considered to be cruel and malicious, the least-likable of Drogo's three bloodriders. 

In the books, Drogo's three bloodriders are Qotho, Cohollo, and Haggo. All three attempt to intervene when Mirri Maz Duur conducts her ritual to heal Drogo, and all three are killed in the resulting fight. Qotho was personally killed by Jorah, just as in the TV series. Unidentified extras fill in some of the actions carried out by Cohollo and Haggo but do not take part in the fight with Ser Jorah, so all three have been functionally condensed into Qotho. See alsoEdit Qotho on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Winter is Coming" ↑ "The Kingsroad" ↑ "A Golden Crown" ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Qotho?oldid=213841"