

Recast characters are those who were originally played by one actor, but then the role was recast and played by another actor. 

Stuntmen, body doubles, or different actors playing the same character at different points in their lifetime (i.e., Nell Williams as Young Cersei in Season 5) do not count as "recastings". Different actor-infants used to play the same baby character also count more as stuntmen than a significant "recasting". 

This also doesn't include the few roles which were recast between the never-aired Pilot episode and Season 1 (such as Daenerys Targaryen and Catelyn Stark). Major rolesEdit 

Three major roles were prominently recast by Season 4: Ser Gregor Clegane, Daario Naharis, and Tommen Baratheon. Gregor Clegane was recast for Season 2 and yet again for Season 4. Daario Naharis was given a full introduction as a major new character in Season 3 with significant dialogue and primary interaction with Daenerys Targaryen, but was then recast. Tommen Baratheon&nbsp;had&nbsp;appeared as a third-tier character in Season 1 and Season 2, and was recast for Season 4 by an older actor (who had coincidentally appeared on the show briefly in a different role as Tommen's first cousin Martyn Lannister in Season 3) to fit his more prominent role and mature storyline. 

For Season 5, Myrcella Baratheon was likewise recast after appearing in Seasons 1 and 2 as a third-tier character. 

In Season 6, the Three-eyed raven has been recast with Max von Sydow taking over the role. Minor rolesEdit 

Minor role Joss Stilwood - Gregor's squire - was also recast between Seasons 1 and 4, though in either case he had no speaking lines, he wasn't identified by name, and it isn't even clear if they were really meant to be the same character. 

The Lord of Bones was also recast for his brief return appearance in Season 5, though it was hard to tell given that he wears a face-obscuring mask, and he died at the end of the one scene he reappeared in. PlaceholdersEdit 

Sort of a gray area are characters who were initially played by uncredited extras, then officially cast and introduced. Such characters weren't really a major "recasting" given that they were always meant to be recast at some point in the future, and had minimal screentime: they were just placeholder appearances because the character wouldn't be fully introduced until much later. 

For example, the first High Septon (Before the riot of King's Landing) technically appeared in Season 1, but with no speaking lines and not identified as "the High Septon" except by his costume. Similarly, Selyse Baratheon technically appeared in the Season 2 premiere, but only appeared in a crowd shot, had no speaking lines, nor was she identified; we only know from casting information that this was actually supposed to be Selyse. 

Beric Dondarrion and Rickard Karstark were more of "placeholders" in Season 1 before their main introduction in later seasons. They had one or two speaking lines but were not really intended to be longstanding figures in the roles. 

Jaqen H'ghar is a persona adopted by several shapeshifters from the Faceless Men, but this "persona" is still played by the same actor. The actor and character were first introduced in Season 2, though a hooded figure appears in Yoren's prisoner cart during the Season 1 finale. This was also simply a "placeholder" and doesn't really merit being called a recasting: the actor wasn't cast until Season 2, and an extra was shot from behind wearing a hood to establish the on-screen continuity that Yoren was transporting some prisoners. Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Recast_characters?oldid=221166"