Regan Karstark Season(s) 1 Mentioned in "A Golden Crown" Titles Lady Also known as Regan Umber Status Deceased Origin Last Hearth Allegiance House Umber 
House Karstark Culture Northmen Family Morag Umber - grandmother 
Hothor Umber - father 
Amarylis Umber - mother 
Harkon Umber - brother 
Mycah Umber - brother 
Lucan Umber - brother 
Gareth Umber - brother 
Joseth Umber - brother 
Corin Umber - sister 
Commard Karstark - husband 
Berrican Karstark - son 
Petyr Karstark - son 
Jon Karstark - son 
Laurence Karstark - son "Born to Lord Hothor Umber and Lady Amarylis Umber in the 186th year after Aegon's Landing at the Last Hearth. Blue of eye, dark brown of hair and fair complected. Wedded on her seventeenth nameday to Commard Karstark, Third of His Name, son of Lord Beric Karstark and Lady Mara Karstark at Karhold. Mother to five sons, their names being: Berrican, (illegible), Petyr, Jon and Laurence. Died peacefully in her sleep in her seventy eighth year." ―Excerpt from The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms[src] 

Regan Karstark, nee Umber is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. She is not expected to appear in the series, being long dead by the time it starts. She is one of the earliest recorded members of House Umber, and an ancient ancestor of the Greatjon and of Lord Rickard Karstark. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Regan Karstark is an early member of House Umber. She married Commard Karstark and bore him five sons. Season 1Edit 

She has an entry in The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms. In the booksEdit 

Regan Karstark is referenced only in the TV adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire and has no corresponding counterpart in the books. ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Golden Crown" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Umber Lord: Lord Greatjon Umber Heir: Smalljon Umber Seat: Last Hearth Lands: The North Title(s): Lord of Last Hearth Ancestors: Morag Umber · Hothor Umber · Amarylis Umber · Harkon Umber · Mycah Umber · Lucan Umber · Gareth Umber · Joseth Umber · Regan Umber · Corin Umber · Brandon Umber · Kear Umber · Finn Umber · Emilia Umber · Morgana Umber · Maynard Umber · Cedric Umber Overlord: House Bolton v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Karstark Lord: Arnolf Karstark Heir: Seat: Karhold Lands: The North Title(s): Lord of Karhold Ancestors: Brandon the Builder · Rodrik Stark · Karlon Stark · Beric Karstark · Mara Karstark · Commard Karstark · Regan Karstark · Berrican Karstark · Petyr Karstark · Laurence Karstark · Jon Karstark Deceased members: Rickard Karstark · Torrhen Karstark · Harrion Karstark Overlord: House Bolton Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Regan_Karstark?oldid=227786"