Reginald Lannister Season(s) 2 First seen "The Ghost of Harrenhal" Appeared in 1 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance House Lannister of Lannisport Family Tywin Lannister - distant relative Portrayed by Patrick Fitzsymons "If your name wasn't Lannister you'd be scrubbing pots in the cooks' tent." ―Tywin Lannister to Reginald Lannister[src] 

Reginald Lannister is a minor character in the second season. He is played by Patrick Fitzsymons and only appears in "The Ghost of Harrenhal." Reginald Lannister is an officer in the army of House Lannister. He is a distant relative of Lord Tywin Lannister and is sent home to the Westerlands for insubordination. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Reginald Lannister is a distant relative of the Lannisters, belonging to a cadet branch of House Lannister established on the city of Lannisport. Reginald Lannister fights for Lord Tywin in the War of the Five Kings. However, Tywin has made him an officer in the Westerlands army solely due to his name, and actually views him with contempt. He is married and his wife remains in the family seat of Lannisport. Season 2Edit 

Reginald is present at a war council held by Lord Tywin inside Harrenhal. Reginald suggests that the Starks have stretched their lines too thin and will struggle to sustain their army with winter imminent. Tywin rejects this notion, saying that the Starks are more capable than they are of coping with cold. The council continues and Tywin chastises his bannermen for waiting for Robb Stark to fail and that he won't unless they make him. He asks how they will stop Robb and Reginald ignores the question to say that they have been working through the night and would benefit from sleep. Tywin says that he believes Reginald would and that because they are cousins he might let Reginald wake from his sleep. He orders Reginald to return to his wife in Lannisport before he decides to send her his head. He adds that Reginald is only an officer because of his birth and otherwise would be scrubbing out pots in the cook's tent. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no character by the name of Reginald Lannister. Among Lord Tywin's bannermen at Harrenhal there's actually no member of either the mainline House Lannister or the cadet branch. References Edit ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Reginald_Lannister?oldid=228011"