For similar articles see Lannister soldier. Rennick Season(s) 2 Appeared in "Garden of Bones" Status Deceased Death Killed by Grey Wind 
"Garden of Bones" Allegiance House Lannister Portrayed by David Fynn "Loras Tyrell? He’s prettier than the queen." ―Rennick[src] 

Rennick is a minor character in the second season. He is played by guest star David Fynn and only appears in "Garden of Bones." Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Rennick is a soldier on sentry duty at the camp of the Lannister forces commanded by Ser Stafford Lannister on their way to reinforce Tywin Lannister's army in the Riverlands. Season 2Edit 

He is on duty with a Lannister guardsman at the perimeter of Stafford Lannister's camp prior to the Battle of Oxcross. They debate on who is the greatest swordsman in the Seven Kingdoms. He argues against Ser Gregor Clegane who is big rather than skilled, and Ser Loras Tyrell who is just too pretty, though he does give credit to "our man Jaime, if he ever gets out". 

They both hear that the horses are spooked, but they aren't too concerned. Then he hears something and walks out into the darkness. The other guardsman follows hesitantly. When Rennick starts to draw his sword the man thinks they are being attacked, but Rennick merely passes gas and starts laughing at him. 

Rennick looks up as a guardsman screams. 

As Rennick stops to urinate, the guardsman sees that the horses are getting more upset not less, but Rennick is not paying attention until the man screams his name. Rennick looks up just in time to see the direwolf Grey Wind leaping out of the darkness at him. In the subsequent attack by the Stark army the camp is taken completely by surprise and the Lannister army is annihilated. 

The next morning the camera pans across the battlefield, showing Rennick's body lying on the ground. He has lost part of his face. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis GalleryEdit Rennick and other guardsmen on sentry duty in "Garden of Bones". 
Add a photo to this gallery ReferencesEdit ↑ "Garden of Bones" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Rennick?oldid=227994"