The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Ronnel Arryn Season(s) Histories &amp; Lore Mentioned in "The Vale (Histories &amp; Lore)" Titles King of Mountain and Vale 
Lord Paramount of the Vale 
Lord of the Eyrie 
Warden of the East Status Deceased Origin The Eyrie Allegiance House Arryn Family {Sharra Arryn} - mother "During Aegon's conquest, one of his sisters did the same, flying her dragon over the Bloody Gate and up to the Eyrie, the Arryn stronghold, and the Arryn boy king yielded the Vale in return for a ride on the beast." ―Petyr Baelish[src] 

Ronnel Arryn is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is deceased when the events of the series begin. He was the last King of Mountain and Vale. 

He is not to be confused with his descendant Ronnel Arryn, younger brother of Jon Arryn, who lived three centuries later, and died some years before Robert's Rebellion. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Visenya Targaryen flew her dragon directly over the mountains to the Eyrie. 

King Ronnel Arryn was only a child during the War of Conquest, with his mother, Queen Sharra Arryn ruling the Vale as Regent. When Visenya Targaryen flew to the Eyrie demanding submission, Ronnel bent the knee to Aegon the Conqueror and surrendered the Kingdom of the Mountain and the Vale in exchange for a ride atop Vhagar. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, it was Queen Sharra who surrendered the Kingdom when she found Ronnel sitting on Visenya's lap, both atop Vhagar, and he asked her if he could ride the dragon. 

The Vale actually put up a fairly strong resistance during the War of Conquest. After the initial Targaryen landing at the mouth of the Blackwater River, the three siblings along with their dragons split up to pursue three separate objectives: Aegon would attack Harrenhal to the west, Rhaenys and Orys would attack Storm's End to the south. Meanwhile, Visenya would lead the Targaryen navy to make an amphibious landing in the east of the Vale - given that it would have been suicidal to try to lead a land army through the narrow pass through the Mountains of the Moon that seal its western border (a pass known as the "Bloody Gate"). However, their fleet was intercepted by the Arryn fleet, and the resulting Battle of Gulltown was the worst setback the Targaryens suffered during their invasion of Westeros (Aegon did later withdraw from Dorne, but only after guerrilla resistance convinced him it would be too difficult to hold, not a disastrous pitched battle). The entire Targaryen fleet was destroyed in the battle. Visenya did what she could to salvage the situation by using her dragon Vhagar to destroy all of the remaining Arryn ships, but even so, the Targaryens no longer had a fleet to quickly reposition troops along the coasts, so the rest of their conquests had to be fought by land. 

The Vale also lost its ability to move troops across the water, but rather than try to unite with the anti-Targaryen alliance before formed between the Reach and the Westerlands, Sharra adopted a siege strategy, closing the Bloody Gate and positioning her land armies to massacre the Targaryen army if it tried to force the mountain pass. The result was that the strength of the Vale was not present at the Field of Fire, though it is uncertain if this would have affected its outcome. Similar to how Aegon faced the same mentality at Harrenhal but simply flew over the castle walls, after the Field of Fire Visenya decided to simply fly her dragon over the mountains and directly to the Eyrie. Instead of immediately attacking the castle, however, the implicit threat alone was enough to make&nbsp;Sharra surrender. 

Visenya&nbsp;was true to her word: the Arryns retained their control over the Vale, and she took Ronnel up for a flight on Vhagar. 

After Aegon I died in 37 AL he was succeeded by his son Aenys Targaryen, but many considered him a weakling and opportunistic rebellions broke out throughout the Seven Kingdoms. In the Vale, Ronnel's younger brother Jonos staged a coup, imprisoned Ronnel in the Eyrie's dungeons, and declared the Vale independent again, with himself as its king. Aenys was slow to respond, but the armies of House Royce rose up to besiege Jonos in the Eyrie - they felt that Jonos would not succeed and hoped to curry favor with the Targaryens. In response, Jonos had Ronnel executed by throwing him out the Moon Door. Aegon's younger son Maegor later arrived at the Eyrie on his father's dragon, Balerion, and put down the rebellion. Jonos and his followers were all executed. Both Ronnel and Jonos died without surviving heirs, so rule of the Vale passed to their cousin Hubert Arryn, who was married to a lady of House Royce - after Jonos executed Ronnel the Royce army besieging the Eyrie had already started supporting Hubert as an alternative to Jonos. As a result, later generations of House Arryn actually do not directly descend from Ronnel, but from his cousin Hubert. See alsoEdit Ronnel Arryn on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ The Vale (Histories &amp; Lore) v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Arryn Lord: Robin Arryn Heir: Seat: The Eyrie Lands: The Vale of Arryn Title(s): Lord of the Eyrie · Lord Paramount of the Vale · Warden of the East Ancestors: Artys Arryn · Sharra Arryn · Ronnel Arryn Deceased members: Jasper Arryn · Jon Arryn · Alys Arryn · Ronnel Arryn · Lysa Arryn Household: {Ser Vardis Egen} · {Ser Hugh of the Vale} · Mord · Petyr Baelish Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Kings of the independent Seven Kingdoms Kings in the North 

Bran the Builder · Rodrik · Torrhen, the King Who Knelt · Robb, the Young Wolf Kings of the Rock 

Loren I Kings of the Iron Islands 

Grey King · Harren the Black · Balon IX Kings of the Reach 

Garth Greenhand · Mern IX Kings of the 
Mountain and the Vale 

Artys, the Winged Knight · Ronnel Arryn Storm Kings 

Durran Godsgrief · Argilac, the Arrogant Princes of Dorne 

Maron Martell Kings of the Rivers and Hills 

House Mudd Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Ronnel_Arryn_(King)?oldid=227895"