Rossart Season(s) 3 Mentioned in "Kissed by Fire" Titles Wisdom 
Hand of the King Status Deceased Death Killed by Jaime Lannister Origin King's Landing Allegiance Alchemists' Guild 
House Targaryen 

Rossart is an unseen character in Game of Thrones. He is dead by the time of the series and only appears in Histories &amp; Lore. He was a Wisdom of the Alchemists' Guild. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Wisdom Rossart was a loyal servant of King Aerys II Targaryen, during whose reign the Guild rose again to royal favor. Rossart burned Aerys' enemies alive in the Great Hall of the Red Keep. During the War of the Usurper, he rose to Hand of the King. 

Following the Battle of the Trident, Aerys had Rossart fill King's Landing with secret caches of wildfire to destroy the city and all those in it should the capital fall to the rebellion. However, Rossart was killed by Ser Jaime Lannister during the capital's sacking to prevent him from carrying out the Mad King's order of destroying the entire city. Season 3Edit 

While feverishly taking a bath in Harrenhal along Brienne of Tarth, Jaime recalls the turn of events that led him to kill Aerys II Targaryen, indirectly referring to Rossart as "Aerys's pyromancer". In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Wisdom Rossart was the head of the Alchemist's Guild during the reign of Mad King Aerys. He had been elevated largely because he shared the king's passion for fire. He was the pyromancer who had cooked Lord Rickard Stark in his armor with wildfire. After Lord Qarlton Chelsted was burned alive under the Mad King's orders, because he refused to take part in Aerys' plan to destroy the city and tried in vain to dissuade him, Rossart became the new Hand of the King, choosing a burning torch as his personal sigil. Rossart served as Hand for less than a fortnight, before being killed during the Sack of King's Landing. Many people who were not in the capital at the time do not even remember that he was briefly Hand of the King. 

After being sent by Aerys to kill Tywin, Jaime caught up with Rossart and killed him, then he returned to the throne room and killed Aerys. Jaime noted that Rossart at least tried to make a fight of it, while Aerys did not resist at all when Jaime slit his throat. Days later, Jaime hunted down the other pyromancers and slew them as well. Belis offered him gold, and Garigus wept for mercy, but Jaime killed them anyway. See alsoEdit Rossart on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Alchemists' Guild (Histories &amp; Lore)" ↑ "Kissed by Fire" ↑ "Kissed by Fire" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Rossart?oldid=222132"