The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Royal Steward Season(s) 1 First seen "Lord Snow" Last seen "The Pointy End" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance House Baratheon of King's Landing Portrayed by Robert Sterne "Perhaps you'd like to change into something more appropriate?" ―The Steward to Eddard Stark[src] 

The Royal Steward is an unnamed recurring character in Game of Thrones. He is played by guest star Robert Sterne and debuts in "Lord Snow." The Royal Steward serves the Iron Throne. He issues his summons and announces arrivals to the court. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 1Edit 

He summons the new Hand of the King Eddard Stark to the small council on his arrival in King's Landing. He summons Eddard again when King Robert Baratheon receives news of Daenerys Targaryen's pregnancy. 

He summons Eddard Stark to see the newly crowned King Joffrey Baratheon following the death of Robert in a hunting accident. Eddard is arrested and imprisoned when he impugns Joffrey's claim to the throne. He announces the arrival of Sansa Stark to the court to plead mercy for her father. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Behind the scenesEdit 

Robert Sterne is a casting director for the Game of Thrones TV series. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Royal Steward has a similar role, though his name, like in the show, is never mentioned. He greets Eddard when he arrives in King's Landing and summons him to the small council but rather than suggesting that he change he actually provides clothing for him. It is the steward rather than Renly Baratheon who summons Eddard after Robert's hunting accident in the books. As in the series he appears again to summon Eddard when Joffrey takes the throne. In the book it is a herald rather than the steward who announces Sansa to the court. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Lord Snow" ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "The Pointy End" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Royal_Steward?oldid=229435"