Shagga Season(s) 1 First seen "The Pointy End" Last seen "Baelor" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Alive Origin The Mountains of the Moon, Westeros Allegiance The Stone Crows Culture Hill Tribes Family Dolf - father Portrayed by Mark Lewis Jones "When you meet your gods, you tell them Shagga, son of Dolf, of the Stone Crows sent you." ―Shagga to Tyrion Lannister[src] 

Shagga is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by guest star Mark Lewis Jones and debuts in "The Pointy End." Shagga is the leader of the Stone Crows and a fierce and independent warrior. He has formed an alliance with Tyrion Lannister. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Shagga, son of Dolf, is the leader of the Stone Crows, one of the hill tribes who live in the foothills of the Mountains of the Moon on the western border of the Vale of Arryn. He is a notable warrior who holds fealty to no lord. Season 1Edit 

Shagga leads the party of tribesmen which finds Tyrion Lannister and Bronn traveling out of the Vale into the Riverlands. Shagga intends to rob the travellers and take Tyrion captive as a fool. Tyrion offers an alliance between the hill tribes and House Lannister on the basis that they share mutual enemies, House Arryn and House Stark, promising gold and weapons. Shagga agrees to the alliance and escorts Tyrion to the Lannister army camped in the Riverlands. The force is led by Tyrion's father, Lord Tywin Lannister. They are joined by Timett of the Burned Men and Chella of the Black Ears along the way. There are also clansmen from the Moon Brothers and Painted Dogs in their group. Tywin accepts the alliance and Shagga's insistence that they fight alongside Tyrion on the battlefield. 

Tyrion reports to his father and his uncle that while at camp, a Moon Brother stabbed a Stone Crow over a sausage, at which the Moon Brother was set upon by three Stone Crows who opened his throat. Bronn managed to restrain Shagga from cutting off the dead man's genitals - "which was fortunate" - but Ulf of the Moon Brothers demanded blood money from the Stone Crows, which Shagga and Gunthor refused to pay. Tywin criticized Tyrion for the lack of discipline in these new allies he had brought to their side. 

Shagga demands two axes from the Lannister stores to Kevan Lannister's chagrin. He and his men actually fight well at the Battle of the Green Fork and win a convincing victory over their foes. Tyrion fails to join them after he is accidentally knocked unconscious by his own men in the rush to the fight. Shagga and his troops join in the post-battle looting of the fallen bodies. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood QuotesEdit Tyrion Lannister: "I am Tyrion, son of Tywin of Clan Lannister." Shagga: "How would you like to die, Tyrion, son of Tywin?" Tyrion Lannister: "In my own bed, at the age of 80 with a belly full of wine and a girl's mouth around my cock." — Tyrion uses his sense of humor to defuse Shagga.[src] Kevan Lannister: "The great hairy one insisted he must have two battle-axes, heavy black steel, double-sided." Tyrion Lannister: "Shagga likes axes." — Kevan Lannister and Tyrion Lannister on Shagga[src] In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Shagga, son of Dolf, is a member of the Stone Crows, one of the mountain clans. He is a strong, large man who prefers to wield two weapons in combat. His favored taunt is to threaten to remove someone's manhood and feed it to "the goats" -even when there are no goats in the vicinity. He is not the most intelligent man, but is extremely dangerous in battle. 

When Tyrion and Bronn are on their way leaving the&nbsp;Vale&nbsp;for the&nbsp;Lannister camp, Bronn captures a goat for food, and then they are met by the Stone Crows clan including&nbsp;Gunthor son of Gurn&nbsp;and Shagga, who claim the goat to be theirs - as Shagga claims, "our mountain, our goat." And then Tyrion persuades them into joining him as depicted in the TV series. 

During the Battle of the Blackwater, Tyrion recognized that the hill tribes, while ferocious, are inexperienced at siege-warfare, so he sent them south across the river to the Kingswood to harass the scouts of Stannis Baratheon's army as they approached the city. They performed quite well, destroying Stannis's scouts and screening forces to such an extent that he had no warning of the approach of&nbsp;Tywin&nbsp;Lannister’s&nbsp;massive reinforcements approaching the city. 

After the battle Tywin pays off the hill tribes and most return home to the Mountains of the Moon in the Vale. Shagga and the Stone Crows, however, decide to stay in the Kingswood, feeling that there are better opportunities for them there. See alsoEdit Shagga on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "Baelor" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Shagga?oldid=225670"