Shella Whent Season(s) 1 Mentioned in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Titles Lady of Harrenhal Also known as Old Lady Whent Status Uncertain Allegiance House Tully 
House Whent Family {Walter Whent} - husband 
{Oswell Whent} - brother-in-law "And is Lady Whent a true and honest friend to my father, Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun?" ―Catelyn Stark[src] 

Shella Whent is an unseen character mentioned in the first season. She is discussed by Catelyn Stark and Willis Wode in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things". Lady Shella Whent is the head of House Whent and the Lady of Harrenhal. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Lady Shella Whent is an old woman. She's a loyal vassal of Hoster Tully, the Lord of Riverrun. Her husband's younger brother was , Ser Oswell Whent, a member of King Aerys II Targaryen's Kingsguard. Season 1Edit 

To take Tyrion Lannister prisoner at the Inn at the Crossroads, Catelyn Stark asserts her origin as a daughter of House Tully and then tells a man of House Whent, Ser Willis Wode, that she recognizes the black bat of Harrenhal on his coat. He affirms Lady Whent's loyalty to Lord Hoster Tully or Riverrun when asked and then helps her to arrest Tyrion. Season 2Edit 

During the War of the Five Kings, Harrenhal is occupied by the forces of House Lannister. Lady Whent surrendered Harrenhal to Tywin Lannister after the Battle at the Mummer's Ford. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Shella Whent was the Lady of Harrenhal until she surrendered the castle to forces belonging to House Lannister during the War of the Five Kings because she lacked the means to defend it. She is considered a friend of the Night's Watch. On the fourth novel Petyr Baelish states that she died, but it is not confirmed. See alsoEdit Shella Whent on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ The Citadel: So Spake Martin ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ Season 2 bluray: War of the Five Kings feature Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Shella_Whent?oldid=227824"