Shirei Frey Season(s) 3 Appeared in "The Rains of Castamere" Status Alive Origin The Twins Allegiance House Frey Family Walder Frey - father 
Walda Frey - sister 
Derwa Frey - sister 
Waldra Frey - sister 
Roslin Frey - sister 
Janeya Frey - niece 
Neyela Frey - niece 
Serra Frey - niece 
Sarra Frey - niece 
Marianne Frey - niece 
Freya Frey - niece 
Merry Frey - niece 
Walda Bolton - niece 
Unborn great-nephew 
 Portrayed by Unidentified "And here is my youngest daughter, Shirei. Though she hasn't bled yet." ―Lord Walder Frey[src] 

Shirei Frey&nbsp;is the youngest daughter of Walder Frey. She only appears in the Season 3 episode "The Rains of Castamere". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Shirei&nbsp;is the youngest daughter of Walder Frey, the Lord of the Crossing. Season 3Edit 

Shirei was one of the numerous daughters and granddaughters Robb Stark had the option of marrying as part of the Stark-Frey alliance. When Robb arrives at The Twins for his uncle Edmure's&nbsp;wedding, he apologizes&nbsp;for his slight against House Frey. Lord Walder states she has yet to flower. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Shirei Frey is the - supposed - seventh daughter of Lord Walder Frey. She is the second daughter of Lord Walder Frey and his seventh spouse, Lady Annara Farring - thus making her the youngest of Lord Walder's twenty-nine legitimate children. According to Merrett Frey, however, Black Walder Frey was rumored to be sleeping with Lady Annara, thus casting doubts on the parentage of her offspring. Shirei is six years old. See alsoEdit Shirei Frey on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Rains of Castamere" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Frey Lord: Lord Walder Frey Heir: Ser Stevron Frey Seat: The Twins · Riverrun Lands: Riverlands Title(s): Lord of the Crossing · Lord of Riverrun · Lord Paramount of the Trident Ancestors: Frey Current members: Arwaya Frey · Derwa Frey · Freya Frey · Janeya Frey · Lothar Frey · Marianne Frey · Merry Frey · Neyela Frey · Olyvar Frey · Roslin Frey · Sarra Frey · Serra Frey · Shirei Frey · Walda Frey · "Fat Walda" Frey · Waldra Frey · Waldron Frey · Ryger Rivers · Black Walder Rivers Deceased members: Joyeuse Erenford Household: Malcolm · Talbot Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Shirei_Frey?oldid=227697"