Silk King Season(s) 2 First seen "Garden of Bones" Last seen "A Man Without Honor" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Mentioned in "The Old Gods and the New" Status Deceased Death Killed by a duplicate of Pyat Pree 
"A Man Without Honor" Allegiance The Thirteen Portrayed by Unknown "The Silk King won't support me because of his business with the Lannisters. Why offend his best customer?" ―Daenerys Targaryen[src] 

The Silk King is an unnamed and unidentified recurring character in the second season. He debuts in "Garden of Bones." He is killed by Pyat Pree when Xaro Xhoan Daxos proclaims himself King of Qarth. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

He is a member of the Thirteen, the rulers of Qarth. Season 2Edit 

He receives Daenerys Targaryen outside the gates of the city with the rest of the Thirteen. They refuse to admit her without seeing her dragons. She is defiant and is eventually admitted under the protection of Xaro Xhoan Daxos. 

He's present at a gathering of Qartheen dignataries attended by Daenerys, accompanied by her protectors, and Xaro Xhoan Daxos. He, along with the Spice King and the Copper King, turns Dany down when she requests boats. The Silk King will not help her because of his business with House Lannister, as he doesn't want to offend his best customers. 

He's present at a session of the Thirteen in which Daenerys accuses the Spice King of stealing her dragons. He's murdered by one of the doubles of Pyat Pree along with the rest of the Qartheen merchant lords after the warlock reveals he stole the dragons and declares Xaro Xhoan Daxos King of Qarth. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis ReferencesEdit ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Silk_King?oldid=209758"