Smitty Season(s) 4 Appeared in "The Watchers on the Wall" Status Deceased Death Falls off the top of the Wall to his death 
"The Watchers on the Wall" Allegiance The Night's Watch Portrayed by Unidentified extra "Smitty!" ―A brother calling his name as he falls.[src] 

Smitty ​is a minor character in the fourth season. He is a member of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit ​Season 4Edit 

Smitty as he repels down the wall with his bow. 

During the Battle of Castle Black, Smitty takes part in defending the Wall against Mance Rayder's forces. As the wildlings approach the wall and start to climb, Smitty and another brother repel down with their bows. At Jon's signal, Smitty shoots his arrow and pierces a wildling in the shoulder, causing him to fall down to his death. As the members of the Night's Watch send oil barrels down on the wildlings at the gate, one barrel gets trapped on the ramp, as it explodes it sends flaming rubble across the Wall, and a piece impales the brother holding Smitty's repel rope in the chest. As the brother drops the rope, Smitty falls off the top of the wall to his death. 

Smitty falling to his death. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children ​In the booksEdit 

​In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is no character by this name. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Watchers on the Wall" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Smitty?oldid=228901"