Sorcerer Season(s) 3 Appeared in "And Now His Watch is Ended" Status Uncertain Origin Myr Portrayed by Harold James McMullan "Hello, my old friend. It's been a long time." ―Varys to the captured sorcerer.[src] 

The Sorcerer is an unnamed minor character in the third season. He appears in "And Now His Watch is Ended". He's a sorcerer established in the Free City of Myr. Contents[show] HistoryEdit BackgroundEdit 

He approached the master of a touring troupe and made an offer he couldn't refuse, buying a slave boy named Varys from his group. He gave the boy a potion that made him unable to move or speak, but didn't dull his perceptions or sense of pain, and castrated him. He burned Varys's shaft and testes in a brazier as part of a magical ritual. In his pain, Varys was frightened to observe that when the sorcerer prayed to the blue flames in his ceremony, a voice clearly answered him from the flames. Afterward the sorcerer had no use for Varys and threw him in the streets to die. 

Instead Varys resolved to live no matter what to spite the sorcerer, and one day get his revenge on him. He ascended the social ladder until he entered the King's small council as the Master of Whisperers. Using his spy network and influence, Varys had his agents locate the sorcerer, who had him gagged and shipped to Varys in a crate. Season 3Edit 

Varys was discussing with Tyrion Lannister while prying a crate open, while narrating his life story to Tyrion, until he revealed to him the Sorcerer, still tied and gagged inside. He urged Tyrion to be patient, as someday he also will take his revenge against the person who sent Ser Mandon Moore against him. With these words, Varys closed the lid of the box again, with the sorcerer still inside. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the sorcerer is mentioned long before by Varys when he tells Tyrion of his origins, while they were discussing the strange circumstances of Cortnay Penrose's death. There is no mention, however, of Varys ever tracking down the sorcerer to exact revenge. 

So far, the books never even made it clear if Varys's tale about how he was castrated by a sorcerer was actually true, or just a story he fabricated to confuse his enemies. On the other hand, it was never implied that he was lying, but Varys is such a master of deception that it was difficult for readers to trust any story he gave about himself. The TV series depicted Varys showing the captured sorcerer to Tyrion Lannister, confirming that his story was true. Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Sorcerer?oldid=209771"