Stiv Season(s) 1 Appeared in "A Golden Crown" Status Deceased Death Shot with an arrow by Theon Greyjoy 
"A Golden Crown" Allegiance The Night's Watch (former) 
 The Free Folk Portrayed by Stephen Don "Piss on Mance Rayder! And piss on the North! We're going as far south as south goes!" ―Stiv to Osha[src] 

Stiv is a minor character in the first season. He is played by guest star Stephen Don and only appears in "A Golden Crown." Stiv is a Night's Watch deserter who is killed while fleeing south of the Wall. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Stiv is a former member of the Night's Watch, who abandoned the Wall to live amongst the Free Folk. Season 1Edit 

Stiv, Osha and Wallen flee south of the Wall, apparently in fear of the return of the White Walkers. In the woods near Winterfell they stumble across Bran Stark and decide to steal his horse. Realizing his importance, they ponder taking him prisoner and returning him to Mance Rayder, the King-Beyond-the-Wall, for a reward, but decide against it. Robb Stark intervenes, and kills Wallen and disables Osha.&nbsp;Stiv holds a knife to Bran's throat, and despite Bran's protests not to, Robb lowers his sword as Stiv tells him to. However, Theon Greyjoy shoots him through the back with an arrow, killing him. Osha surrenders to Stark custody. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Image galleryEdit Stiv with Osha in the Wolfswood in "A Golden Crown". Stiv holding a knife to Bran's throat. 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Stiv is a member of a band of wildlings who manage to evade the Watch to seek succour in the lands to the south. He is an associate of Osha and Wallen. See alsoEdit Stiv on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Golden Crown" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Stiv?oldid=225754"