Stonesnake Season(s) 2 First seen "The Ghost of Harrenhal" Last seen "The Old Gods and the New" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Ranger Status Deceased Death Killed by wildlings Allegiance The Night's Watch 

Stonesnake is a recurring background character in the second season. He is played by an unidentified extra and debuts in "The Ghost of Harrenhal." Stonesnake is a member of the Night's Watch, a Ranger serving under Qhorin Halfhand. He is killed by wildlings while scouting the Skirling Pass. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Stonesnake is a ranger of the Night's Watch. Season 2Edit 

After meeting the force led by Lord Commander Jeor Mormont at the Fist of the First Men, Qhorin Halfhand selects Stonesnake, Harker, and Borba for a scouting party to ambush a group of wildling lookouts. They are joined by Jon Snow. They locate and surprise the lookouts, killing all but one of them. Jon is left to execute the wildling survivor, Ygritte. Jon does not return and they return for him. They pick up his tracks but are ambushed by wildlings. Harker, Stonesnake and Borba are killed while Qhorin is captured. Jon had spared the captive and she leads him into a similar ambush. Jon blames himself for their deaths, and Qhorin tells him to make sure it wasn't in vain. Qhorin seizes the opportunity to insert Jon as an infiltrator in the wildling ranks by berating him for the deaths of the others publicly. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the Song of Ice and Fire novels, Stonesnake is also a Ranger serving under Qhorin Halfhand. He is short and wiry man, near fifty with a grey beard. He is stronger than he looks, and has the best night-eyes of anyone Jon has ever known. He's dubbed Stonesnake for his ability for climbing mountains and cliffs. 

Stonesnake leads the mission to scale the Skirling Pass at night to ambush a trio of wildling watchers. He and Jon kill two of the sentries (one of them is Orell). He expresses distrust in Ygritte and later informs Qhorin of what she told Jon. 

In the novels, his fate is uncertain. After his horse panics and breaks its leg, he offers to stay behind and fight the pursuing wildlings like Dalbridge, but Qhorin orders him to make it through the Frostfangs afoot to the Fist, and to tell Mormont what they saw. Jon watches as&nbsp;Stonesnake goes away, and fears that he has no chance. Stonesnake has not been mentioned since. While it has not been confirmed that he died, according to the novels appendix he was lost afoot in the Skirling Pass. See alsoEdit Stonesnake on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (major spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "The Prince of Winterfell" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Stonesnake?oldid=232607"