Styr Season(s) 4 First seen "Two Swords" Last seen "The Watchers on the Wall" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Titles Magnar of Thenn Status Deceased Death Bludgeoned with a forging hammer by Jon Snow. 
"The Watchers on the Wall" Allegiance Mance Rayder 
Thenn Culture Thenn Religion Old Gods of the Forest Portrayed by Yuri Kolokolnikov "I know we've had our differences, Tormund. But just one time, before you die, you really ought to try... crow." ―Styr[src] 

Styr is a recurring character in the fourth season.&nbsp;He is played by Yuri Kolokolnikov and debuts in "Two Swords".&nbsp;Styr&nbsp;is a wildling and the Magnar of Thenn, the leader of one of the fiercest tribes of the&nbsp;Free Folk, and&nbsp;a lieutenant of&nbsp;Mance Rayder. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Styr is the Magnar of the Thenn, a fierce tribe of Free Folk known for their practice of ritual self-scarification and engaging in cannibalism of their fallen enemies. Styr is a very highly-skilled warrior and is capable of wielding a great axe with ease due to his size and strength. 

At some point, Mance Rayder convinced Styr&nbsp;to join his army and acknowledge him as the King-Beyond-the-Wall. Styr became one of Mance's lieutenants, along chieftains such as Tormund Giantsbane and the Lord of Bones. Season 4Edit 

Styr meets Tormund. 

Styr&nbsp;leads a group of Thenns towards&nbsp;Castle Black and encounters Tormund and Ygritte after the warg in his group sees them through the eyes of his owl. Styr mocks them over the death of Orell and their failure to kill Jon Snow. Afterwards, he and his fellow Thenns prepare to eat a member of the Night's Watch whom they have recently killed. 

Styr, Tormund,&nbsp;Ygritte and other wildlings&nbsp;attack a village killing all of its residents, save for one child. Styr orders this child to run to Castle Black to warn the Night's Watch about the wildlings. Before this, he informs the child that he is going to eat his dead parents. 

Styr and Tormund attack the settlement of Mole's Town. They slaughter most of the inhabitants, which include members of the Night's Watch who were visiting the local brothel. News of this attack reaches Castle Black, which is their next target. 

Styr is killed by Jon Snow. 

Just outside of Castle Black, Styr chastises Ygritte for not killing Jon Snow when she had the chance. Soon after, his warg has spotted Mance Rayder's signal and they attack Castle Black. During the battle, he kills numerous black brothers before spotting Jon Snow. In the midst of the fighting, Styr and Jon duel each other in the courtyard of Castle Black. Styr gets the upper hand by knocking away Longclaw from Jon and fighting hand to hand. He forces Jon's head into a blacksmith anvil, however, Jon eventually distracts him by spitting in his face and smashes Styr's head in with a hammer, killing him. 

After the arrival of Stannis Baratheon and his army, Jon enters the chambers where Tormund is being held and mentions that the bodies of the fallen wildlings are going to be burned.&nbsp;Styr's body is burned along with the other wildlings. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children QuotesEdit Styr: "You know how to get to Castle Black?" Olly: "Yeah." Styr: "Those your parents? Open your eyes. I'm going to eat them. Do you hear me? I'm going to eat your dead Mama, and I'm going to eat your dead Papa. Go and tell the crows at Castle Black." — Styr threatens Olly.[src] Styr: "You've got a lot to say about killing. Even more words than arrows." Ygritte: "Back in those villages, I killed just as many of them as you did. More, I reckon." Styr: "Yes, but none of those were your crow lover." Ygritte: "I probably killed him already." Styr: "So you've said." — Styr to Ygritte[src] Ygritte: "And if not, the only thing left of him is gonna be his fun bits hanging around my neck." Styr: "More words. Know what I think you do when you see him? Serve him up a nice juicy slice of ginger minge." Ygritte: "You been thinking about that ginger minge? Wondering what it tastes like?" Styr: "Maybe I have." — Styr antagonizes Ygritte.[src] Behind the scenesEdit 

Dutch actor Yorick van Wageningen auditioned for the role of Styr. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Styr is one of Mance Rayder's lieutenants and the Magnar - "Lord" in the Old Tongue of the First Men - of the Thenn people, a clan of Free Folk established in a valley north of the Frostfangs. Unlike the other wildling clans, the Thenn actually have lords (more like hereditary chieftains), and live under established laws that they enforce. As a result they are the most disciplined of the wildling clans, making them organized and dangerous in combat; they also possess the most advanced armor and weaponry among the Free Folk. The Magnar's followers worship the man like a god, and follow every order, however ridiculous. 

In the series, much of his plotline from A Storm of Swords is taken by Tormund Giantsbane - including being mistaken by Jon Snow for Mance, and leading the climb over the Wall. He is described as a tall lean man with no ears, clean shaven, bald with a straight nose and grey eyes. He doesn't speak the Common Tongue, speaking only the Old Tongue. 

Styr is also not a cannibal, and doesn't possess scars on his head. 

Styr is not killed by Jon in personal combat. During the Battle of Castle Black he leads the majority of the Thenns to mount the stair and push back the crumbling defense, killing some of the brothers and villagers. Because Jon warned the Watch of their approach, the garrison knew they were coming and sprung a trap: the stair, soaked in oil between the last Watch line of defense and the base of the structure, is set ablaze, destroying the stair and killing Styr and most of his men. 

Styr is succeeded by his son Sigorn as the Magnar of Thenn. See alsoEdit Styr on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" ↑ "The Watchers on the Wall" ↑ "The Children" ↑  Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Styr?oldid=231475"