The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Tanda Stokeworth Season(s) 5 Mentioned in "The House of Black and White" Titles Lady of Castle Stokeworth Status Alive Allegiance House Stokeworth Family {Stokeworth} - husband 
Falyse Stokeworth - daughter 
Lollys Stokeworth - daughter "We won't get to live at Stokeworth. When mother dies my sister gets the castle because she's older." ―Lollys Stokeworth to Bronn[src] 

Tanda Stokeworth is an unseen character in the fifth season. She is the lady of Castle Stokeworth. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 5Edit 

Bronn mistakenly believes that he and his betrothed Lollys will one day reside at Castle Stokeworth. Lollys corrects him by saying that when her mother dies her older sister Falyse will inherit the castle. She also tells him that Falyse pulls her hair when their mother is not looking. Family treeEdit 

 
 &nbsp; Unknown Lord Stokeworth 
Deceased &nbsp; Tanda Stokeworth &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Falyse Stokeworth &nbsp; &nbsp; Lollys Stokeworth &nbsp; Ser Bronn 
of the Blackwater &nbsp; In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Tanda Stokeworth is the Lady of Stokeworth. She is very old, and known to not be a very bright or attractive woman. 

Tanda is the head of House Stokeworth in the novels. When House Stokeworth was first mentioned in the TV series in Season 4's "Mockingbird", a point of some confusion was that Tyrion said that Lollys's older sister would inherit Castle Stokeworth after their father died. When Lollys first appeared on-screen in Season 5, however, she made it clear that her older sister will inherit the castle after their mother dies. It is possible that the TV writers thought that having a female head of a major House would be confusing and require some sort of lengthy explanation, so they simply pushed back the explanation about Lollys's mother being the actual head of the House to Season 5. It can easily be explained that Tyrion was simply mistaken or misspoke. 

During the reign of Aerys II, Manly Stokeworth was Commander of the City Watch. He was succeeded in the position by Janos Slynt. Littlefinger remarked that the widowed Lady Tanda has no love for the Lannisters: it is quite possible that Manly was in fact her husband, and that he died during the Sack of King's Landing committed by Tywin Lannister's army. 

Unable to find a husband for her daughter Lollys, she made several attempts to convince Lord Petyr Baelish to marry Lollys by serving him extravagant meals. Littlefinger had no intention of marrying Lollys, finding her to be bad company as well as overweight and unattractive. She later makes similar attempts with Tyrion Lannister, with him repeatedly trying to avoid the invitations. 

Once the War of the Five Kings breaks out, Tanda and Lord Gyles Rosby provide half of the food still in arriving King's Landing as their lands lie close to the city to the north and are still untouched by war. 

Along with her daughters, Tanda attends several significant events in King's Landing such as King Joffrey Baratheon's nameday celebration, Princess Myrcella Baratheon's departure for Dorne (after which the Riot of King's Landing takes place, in which Lollys is gang raped and impregnated) and the Purple Wedding. During the Battle of the Blackwater, they take shelter with the other women in Maegor's Holdfast. 

After the death of Tywin Lannister, Tanda suggests naming Lollys's child after him, as she claims to have admired him above all other men. Cersei Lannister is disgusted by the notion that he father's name would be given to a bastard born of rape. This subplot was omitted from the TV series, in which Lollys was never raped. See alsoEdit Tanda Stokeworth on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The House of Black and White" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Stokeworth Lord: Tanda Stokeworth Heir: Falyse Stokeworth Seat: Castle Stokeworth Lands: The Crownlands Title(s): Lord of Stokeworth Current members: Lollys Stokeworth Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Tanda_Stokeworth?oldid=210601"