Ternesio Terys Season(s) 4, 5 First seen "The Children" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Alive Origin Braavos Portrayed by Gary Oliver "There is nothing in the North but ice, and war, and pirates." ―Ternesio Terys to Arya Stark[src] 

Ternesio Terys is a recurring character in the fourth and fifth seasons. He is played by Gary Oliver and first appears in "The Children". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Ternesio Terys is the captain of the Titan's Daughter, a trading galleon from Braavos. ​Season 4Edit 

Arya Stark approaches Terys at a small port in Saltpans and asks him if he'll give her passage to the Wall. She is willing to pay or scrub the floors of the ship in return. He tries to dissuade her from visiting the North, opining that it is a land of "ice, war and pirates". Besides, he says his ship is actually bound for his home, Braavos. Arya remembers the iron coin and the instructions that Jaqen H'ghar had given her following her escape from Harrenhal, and shows the coin to him, whispering "Valar Morghulis". Terys, astounded, responds with "Valar Dohaeris" and promises her a cabin. Season 5Edit 

After a long sea voyage, Ternesio and Arya Stark arrive at the city of Braavos. She is awestrack by the Titan, so he tells her that, in the old times, whenever Braavos stood in danger, the Titan would wake and protect the city. Arya replies it's just a statue, and just then the Titan lets out a loud blast announcing their arrival, startling her, so the captain laughs. Terys personally brings Arya to the House of Black and White, where he claims she may find the man she seeks. Arya thanks Terys for bringing her this far and he responds that any man of Braavos would have done the same. They say their goodbyes, and he rows away. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Image GalleryEdit Ternesio in Season 4. 
Add a photo to this gallery QuotesEdit "Valar Dohaeris." ―Ternesio to Arya Stark[src] In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ternesio Terys is also the captain of the Titan's Daughter. He keeps his grey hair cut short and neat and has a square windburnt face. He is the father of Denyo and Yorko Terys. See alsoEdit Ternesio Terys on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ http://diamondmanagement.co.uk/index.php/artists/bio/gary_oliver ↑ "The Children" ↑ "The House of Black and White" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Ternesio_Terys?oldid=210177"