

According to Melisandre, Stannis Baratheon is the prophesied Lord's Chosen, the Warrior of Light. "You will betray the men serving you, you will betray your family, you will betray everything you once held dear... and it will all be worth it, because you are the Son of Fire, you are the Warrior of Light." ―Melisandre to Stannis Baratheon[src] 

"The Prince That Was Promised" or "The One Who Was Promised", also known as the Lord's Chosen, the Son of Fire and the Warrior of Light, is a mythic figure in the religion of the Lord of Light. According to prophecy, this figure would be reborn "amidst salt and smoke" and pull a flaming sword from the flames, Lightbringer, to combat the coming darkness. 

According to Lady Melisandre, priestess of the Lord of Light, Stannis Baratheon is the prophesied Prince. 

Another Red Priestess, this one in Volantis, preaches to a group of slaves that Daenerys Targaryen is their prophesied savior. In the books Edit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Prince That Was Promised is implied to be the reincarnation of a hero known as&nbsp;Azor Ahai. He was a legendary warrior who rose up and defeated the Others - the books' name for the White Walkers - during the Long Night. He wielded a sword of fire, called Lightbringer. There is some debate amongst fans as to the interchangeability of "Azor Ahai" and "The Prince That Was Promised". It seems that Azor Ahai is the name given to the legendary figure, while the Prince That Was Promised is more properly his reincarnation. However, the books do not in fact make explicit the connection between the stories of Azor Ahai and the prophecies of the Prince That Was Promised. 

The prophecy about the Prince That Was Promised said he would be born from the line of House Targaryen - Stannis Baratheon does match this description because his grandmother was a Targaryen. See also Edit The prince that was promised on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) References Edit ↑ Game of Thrones Season 2 featurette: Religions of Westeros ↑  ↑ "Valar Morghulis" ↑ "Garden of Bones" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "High Sparrow" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Legendary Figures Arson Iceaxe · Artys Arryn · Azor Ahai &amp; Nissa Nissa · Bran the Builder · Durran Godsgrief &amp; Elenei 
 Garth Greenhand · First King · Florian &amp; Jonquil · The Grey King · The Griffin King · Joramun · Lann the Clever 
The Night's King &amp; the Night's Queen · The Rat Cook · The Prince That Was Promised Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/The_Prince_That_Was_Promised?oldid=215892"