Thenn warg Season(s) 4 First seen "Two Swords" Last seen "The Watchers on the Wall" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Status Deceased Death Shot in the head with an arrow by Samwell Tarly 
"The Watchers on the Wall" Allegiance Thenn Culture Thenn Religion Old Gods of the Forest Portrayed by Joseph Gatt "It's time." ―Thenn warg[src] 

A Thenn warg is a recurring character in the fourth season, debuting in the season premiere. He is played by Joseph Gatt. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

He is a member of the Thenn, a tribe of Free Folk known for their practices of ritual self-scarification and cannibalism. He is also a warg, capable of entering the minds of animals to see through their eyes and control their actions. He is bound to an owl, allowing him to act as a scout for Styr, the Magnar of Thenn. Season 4Edit 

Having already scaled the Wall and raided a village in the Gift, the Thenn warg locates Tormund and Ygritte's group through his owl and leads Styr and the rest of his warband to them. 

On top of the Wall, the warg's owl spots the signal fire created by Mance Rayder. He tells Styr and Tormund that the time has come to attack Castle Black. The Thenn warg fights alongside his wildling allies during the battle.&nbsp;After killing a black brother, he sees and chases down Samwell Tarly, who shoots him in the head with a crossbow. As Jon enters the chambers where Tormund is being held, Jon mentions that the bodies of the fallen wildlings were going to be burned, and later this warg's body was burned along with the other slain wildlings. AppearancesEdit Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Image galleryEdit Thenn warg meets with the wildling group led by Tormund in "Two Swords". 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, even though there are several skinchangers in Mance Rayder's army (Orell, Varamyr Sixskins, Borroq), there is no mention of one among the Thenn. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Two Swords" ↑ "The Watchers on the Wall" ↑ "The Children" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Thenn_warg?oldid=221014"