Timett Season(s) 1, 2 First seen "The Pointy End" Last seen "What is Dead May Never Die" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Also known as Timett One-Eye 
Timett, son of Timett Status Alive Origin The Mountains of the Moon, Westeros Allegiance The Burned Men 
Tyrion Lannister (temporary alliance) Culture Hill Tribes Family Timett - father Portrayed by Tobias Winter "Timett, son of Timett, ruler of the Burned Men." ―Tyrion Lannister[src] 

Timett is a recurring character in the first and second seasons. He is played by Tobias Winter and debuts in the "The Pointy End." Timett is the leader of the Burned Men and a renowned fearless warrior. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Timett, son of Timett, is the leader of the Burned Men, one of the hill tribes living in the foothills of the Mountains of the Moon on the western edge of the Vale of Arryn. He is a large and fierce young man with only one eye. Despite his youth, his savagery and success in battle have seen him rise high amongst the hill tribes. Season 1Edit 

Tyrion Lannister is captured by Shagga and the Stone Crows while traversing the Vale of Arryn. Tyrion offers an alliance to the Hill Tribes; fight the enemies of House Lannister in exchange for weapons, gold and autonomy from The Eyrie. Timett agrees to the alliance and escorts Tyrion to the Lannister encampment in the Riverlands. They are joined by other clans including Chella and the Black Ears, the Moon Brothers and the Painted Dogs. Timett is presented to Lord Tywin Lannister by Tyrion. Tywin accepts the alliance and Shagga's insistence that they fight alongside Tyrion on the battlefield. The Burned Men take part in the Lannister victory in the Battle of the Green Fork. They then engage in post-battle looting. Season 2Edit 

Timett and his men escort Tyrion to King's Landing where he becomes Acting Hand of the King on behalf of Tywin. 

After Tyrion discovers that Grand Maester Pycelle is spying on him for Queen Cersei, Timett and Bronn accompany him to confront Pycelle. Tyrion orders Timett to cut off Pycelle's manhood and feed it to the goats. Timett points out that there are no goats nearby and Tyrion is exasperated. Tyrion settles for shortening his beard and confining him to the Black Cells. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End * Baelor * Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers * The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis 

* - Uncredited appearances QuotesEdit Tyrion Lannister: "Cut off his manhood, and feed it to the goats." Timett: "...There are no goats, halfman!" Tyrion Lannister: "Well, make do!" — Tyrion threatens Pycelle with orders to Timett[src] In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Burned Men are noted as the most unpredictable and savage of the mountain clans, and Timett is the most feared of them. Normally Burned Men are expected to burn off a finger or nipple as a show of might during their rite of manhood, but Timett burned out an eye as a sign of bravery and might, which earned him great respect within his tribe and the title of Red Hand. See alsoEdit Timett on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) References Edit ↑ "A Golden Crown" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Baelor" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "What is Dead May Never Die" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Timett?oldid=229132"