Tobho Mott Season(s) 1, 2 First seen "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Last seen "The North Remembers" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Status Alive Origin Qohor Portrayed by Andrew Wilde "Boy, this is the King's Hand! If his Lordship wants the helmet..." ―Tobho to Gendry[src] 

Tobho Mott is a recurring character in the first and second seasons. He is played by guest star Andrew Wilde and debuts in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things." Tobho Mott is a master armorer and blacksmith in King's Landing. His apprentice Gendry is a bastard son of Robert Baratheon. Tobho is tortured by the City Watch to reveal that Gendry fled the city in the wake of Robert's death. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Tobho Mott is a master armorer and blacksmith living in the city of King's Landing. Despite being a foreigner from the Free City of Qohor, he is well-regarded for the quality of his work and has received the patronage of many knights and even some lords. Mott is assisted by his apprentice smith, a young man named Gendry. Season 1Edit 

Eddard Stark learns that his predecessor Jon Arryn visited Mott prior to his death. Stark goes to question Mott and learns that Arryn displayed a particular interest in Gendry. Stark later realizes that Gendry is the bastard son of King Robert Baratheon. Robert is killed and Gendry sets off to join the Night's Watch. Season 2Edit 

Mott is forcibly questioned and tortured by the Gold Cloaks about the whereabouts of Gendry. He tells Janos Slynt that Gendry joined the Night's Watch and that he can be recognized by the bull-shaped helm he sports.  Season 3Edit 

When Gendry mentions to the Brotherhood Without Banners that he apprenticed under Tobho, Thoros&nbsp;noted that Tobho charges double what the other smiths do. Gendry retorts this by saying it is because his work is twice the quality. Later, Gendry says he is done serving men, because Tobho sold him to the Night's Watch - apparently unaware that he was made to leave for the Wall to avoid the upcoming purge of Robert's other bastard children. GalleryEdit Gendry working in Tobbo Mott's blacksmith forge. 
Add a photo to this gallery AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Tobho Mott is a native of the Free City of Qohor who learned to smith there, including the working of the fabled Valyrian steel. He moved to Westeros when younger and has successfully built up his own business thanks to his formidable skills. His armory is a large building at the top of the Street of Steel, impressive in size and outfittings. 

When Eddard Stark asked Mott who paid him Gendry's apprentice fee, Mott answered evasively, but eventually admitted it was a mysterious lord who did not identify himself that paid him both the apprentice fee and to keep his mouth shut about the youth. 

In the books, Mott is not interrogated about Gendry's whereabouts. It is not explained how the Gold Cloaks knew that Gendry was with Yoren's caravan. 

Mott, not a smith from Volantis, is the one who melts Ice to forge two new swords at Tywin Lannister's order. See alsoEdit Tobho Mott on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "Fire and Blood" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "Dark Wings, Dark Words" ↑ "Kissed by Fire" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Tobho_Mott?oldid=224271"