Todder Season(s) 1, 3, 5 First seen "You Win or You Die" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Also known as Toad Status Alive Allegiance Night's Watch Portrayed by Will O'Connell "Halt! Halt!" ―Todder[src] 

Todder is a recurring character in the first,&nbsp; third, and fifth seasons. He is played by guest star Will O'Connell and debuts in "You Win or You Die". Todder, nicknamed Toad, is a Builder of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit Season 1Edit 

Toad is present during the speech Lord Commander Jeor Mormont gave to the "graduating" recruits. He is assigned to the Builders. Season 3Edit 

He alerts other members of the Watch of Jon Snow's return. Season 5Edit 

Todder accompanies Jon Snow on his expedition to Hardhome. During the battle that ensues after the arrival of the Night's King, he attempts to dissuade Jon from staying behind to fight off the White Walkers, but Jon orders him to keep transporting Wildings to the ships. After the Night's King summons a new host of Wights, Toad pulls back to shore to allow Jon, Edd, Tormund and the last few fighters to jump aboard and escape the oncoming hoard and row away. Todder is then seen returning to Castle Black with Jon Snow, Eddison Tollett, Tormund and the rescued wildlings. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Image galleryEdit Todder standing watch at Castle Black Todder yelling to Jon. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Todder is the son of a winesink owner. He is described as a short, ugly boy with an unpleasant voice. He has pig eyes, small and shiny. Instead of a Builder, Toad is made a Ranger. He's part of the group of friends that prevent Jon Snow from abandoning the Night's Watch when the latter flees to join Robb Stark on his march south to wage war against the Iron Throne. See alsoEdit Todder on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "You Win or You Die" ↑ "Mhysa" ↑ "Hardhome" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Todder?oldid=228389"