Tom Season(s) 2 Appeared in "Valar Morghulis" Status Deceased Death Killed by Brienne 
"Valar Morghulis" Allegiance House Stark Portrayed by Christopher Reilly Tom: "What do you think of these beauties?" Brienne: "I hope you gave them quick deaths." Tom: "Two of them we did, yeah." — Tom and Brienne of Tarth[src] 

Tom is a minor character in the second season. He is played by guest star Christopher Reilly and only appears in "Valar Morghulis." Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Tom is a soldier for House Stark. Season 2Edit 

Brienne and Jaime come inland to see three tavern wenches hanged from a tree. She plans to cut them down and bury them but is interrupted by three Stark soldiers. Tom is leading the trio and asks what they are doing there. Brienne tells them she is moving a prisoner, and they laugh at her because she is a woman. They question her further and Brienne says that she is taking him to Riverrun, and the Stark soldiers let them leave. Tom asks her what she thinks of the wenches they hanged. Brienne tells him she hopes they were given quick deaths and Tom says two of them did, implying that they made the last suffer. Tom's friend recognizes Jaime and says that he's the Kingslayer. Brienne denies it, and then Tom orders them to say his name simultaneously on the count of three. Brienne pushes Jaime away, and kills Tom's friends. She then gives Tom a slow death. AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there's no Stark soldier named Tom. Brienne, Jaime, and Cleos Frey do not run into any Stark soldiers after they escape from Riverrun. They do see the women hanging in the tree with the same sign, who were hanged for "laying with lions" close to the lands of House Bracken, which had previously been occupied by Lannister forces led by Ser Gregor Clegane. Brienne pulls the boat over, climbs the tree, and begins to cut the bodies down. However, when she gets high enough she sees the mast of the boat from Riverrun that is pursuing them, so they leave the women unburied. ReferencesEdit ↑ "Valar Morghulis" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Tom?oldid=229707"