Tyrell lady Season(s) 3 First seen "And Now His Watch is Ended" Status Alive Allegiance House Tyrell Portrayed by Sophie Reid "Do you like it, Nana?" ―Tyrell lady to Olenna Tyrell[src] 

A lady of House Tyrell is an unnamed minor character in the third season. She is played by Sophie Reid and first appears in "And Now His Watch is Ended". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

She is apparently a granddaughter of Olenna Tyrell, one of Margaery's cousins from a lesser branch of House Tyrell. Season 3Edit 

She is seated in the gardens with Lady Olenna Tyrell and another girl embroidering a golden Tyrell rose with their motto, "Growing Strong", which prompts Olenna to complain about their family having the dullest sigil and motto in the Seven Kingdoms. Olenna spooks her by boldly quoting the mottos for House Stark and House Greyjoy, thinking of her House's words as being inferior, before observing that there is "a spider in the garden". When Varys approaches, Olenna shoos them away with the mocking advice to "grow strong". AppearanceEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Margaery Tyrell arrives in King's Landing to wed King Joffrey Baratheon accompanied by three handmaidens, Elinor Tyrell, Megga Tyrell, and Alla Tyrell. The girls are all daughters of different cadet branches of House Tyrell. Elinor Tyrell is the only one of the three to have reached puberty. Both of the ladies seen in "And Now His Watch is Ended", as well as the two attending Lady Margaery in "Valar Dohaeris" are obviously adults, so that particular detail appears to have been ignored. Their relationship to Margaery might be the same, however, since these two refer to Olenna as "nana", this presumably means she is their grandmother. ReferencesEdit v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Tyrell Lord: Lord Mace Tyrell Heir: Ser Loras Tyrell Seat: Highgarden Lands: The Reach Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Reach · Lord of Highgarden · Warden of the South Ancestors: Garth Gardener · Harlen Tyrell · Lyonel Tyrell Current members: Olenna Tyrell · Alerie Tyrell · Margaery Tyrell · Tyrell lady Deceased members: Luthor Tyrell Household: Mira Forrester · Sera Durwell Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Tyrell_lady?oldid=227904"