Tyrion Lannister Season(s) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 First seen "Winter is Coming" Appeared in 46 episodes (see below) Titles Master of Coin (formerly) 
Hand of the King (acting) (formerly) Also known as The Imp 
Halfman 
The Little Lion Status Alive Age Approx. 38 in Season 6 Origin Casterly Rock Allegiance House Lannister (formerly) 
House Targaryen Culture Andal Religion Faith of the Seven Family {Tywin Lannister} - father/first cousin once removed 
{Joanna Lannister} - mother/first cousin once removed 
{Tytos Lannister} - paternal grandfather 
Cersei Lannister - sister/second cousin 
Jaime Lannister - brother/second cousin 
{Cersei's black-haired son} - nephew/second cousin once removed 
{Joffrey Baratheon} - double nephew/second cousin once removed 
{Myrcella Baratheon} - double niece/second cousin once removed 
Tommen Baratheon - double nephew/second cousin once removed 
Ser Kevan Lannister - uncle 
Ser Lancel Lannister - first cousin 
{Martyn Lannister} - first cousin 
{Willem Lannister} - first cousin 
{Robert Baratheon} - brother-in-law 
Tysha - first wife (annulled) 
Sansa Stark - second wife (unconsummated, de facto separated) 
{Eddard Stark} - father-in-law 
{Catelyn Stark} - mother-in-law 
{Robb Stark} - brother-in-law 
Arya Stark - sister-in-law 
Bran Stark - brother-in-law 
Rickon Stark - brother-in-law 
{Jon Snow} - half brother-in-law 
{Shae} - former lover Portrayed by Peter Dinklage Tyrion Lannister: "I'm guilty of a far more monstrous crime: I'm guilty of being a dwarf!" Tywin Lannister: "You are not on trial for being a dwarf." Tyrion Lannister: "Oh, yes I am! I've been on trial for that my entire life!" — Tyrion at his trial, falsely accused of killing his nephew King Joffrey[src] 

Tyrion Lannister is a major character in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth seasons. He is played by starring cast member Peter Dinklage and debuts in the series premiere. Tyrion Lannister is the youngest son of Lord Tywin Lannister and younger brother of Cersei and Jaime Lannister. A dwarf, he uses his wit and intellect to overcome the prejudice he faces. Contents[show] Biography 

Background 

Tyrion Lannister is the youngest son of Joanna Lannister and Lord Tywin Lannister. Tywin is the head of House Lannister, the richest man in the Seven Kingdoms and Lord Paramount of the Westerlands. The Westerlands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms and House Lannister of Casterly Rock is one of the Great Houses of the realm. He is the younger brother of Jaime and Cersei Lannister. His mother Joanna Lannister died giving birth to him. His father and sister hold him in contempt as they blame him for the death. 

He is a dwarf, causing him problems and persecution. His size has led him to&nbsp;being referred to derisively by various names, such as "the Imp" and "The Halfman". This is mitigated by his intellect and his family's wealth and power. Had an infant with dwarfism like Tyrion been born a commoner, he'd have simply been left out in the woods to die. However, Tyrion was born into a powerful noble House, and was therefore spared. Even though his father doesn't think much of him, he has had the benefits of being raised with wealth and education, and is expected to lead his life as a credit to the Lannister name. He is committed to the good of both his House and, since Cersei married King Robert Baratheon, his family's continued hold on the throne. 

When Tyrion was 16, he met a wheelwright's daughter named Tysha on the road, apparently the victim of an attempted rape. While his brother Jaime ran off the attackers, Tyrion helped Tysha recover from the ordeal, and they became lovers. They found a drunken, wandering septon willing to&nbsp;marry them and briefly, they lived as husband and wife. That is, until Lord Tywin learned what had happened. Jaime confessed that he organized the incident to make his brother happy, and Tysha was actually a prostitute. As a lesson, Tywin gave Tysha to his guards, paying her a silver coin for each man and forcing Tyrion to watch. By the end, there were so many silver coins that they were running out of her hands onto the ground. Tyrion has reciprocated Tywin's hatred ever since. 

His two siblings have had positions of respect and responsibility since their teens. When Tyrion turned sixteen (the age of manhood), Tywin Lannister put Tyrion in charge of the drains and cisterns at Casterly Rock. Tyrion brags that the "[sewage] never flowed [smoother] to the sea." 

Tyrion once encountered Lord Gregor Forrester at the Tourney in Lannisport. While they once spoke briefly, Tyrion found Gregor very honorable, even mentioning it to Gregor's daughter Mira years later. 

Tyrion spends a lot of time at court in King's Landing to avoid his father. He gets on well with Jaime and his niece Myrcella and nephew Tommen, but has a colder relationship with Cersei and his sadistic nephew Joffrey. He has a fondness for prostitutes and drink, but is also intelligent, cunning, and educated. He also is a kind man who would protect the innocent claiming that he loves broken things. Season 1 

Tyrion visits a whorehouse upon his arrival in Winterfell. Tyrion accompanies King Robert Baratheon's party to Winterfell, but after weeks on the road, he leaves the party and rides ahead to seek the pleasures of the winter town's brothels, where he makes the acquaintance of Ros. He gives the prostitute a Lannister lion necklace to thank her for their time together. Jaime convinces him to join the family for dinner. Tyrion dawdles outside the feast hall, reluctant to make nice with the Starks and his own family, and as a result meets Jon Snow, Lord Eddard Stark's&nbsp;bastard&nbsp;son. He realizes that Jon is something of a kindred spirit: "All dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes," he explains. When Tyrion's nephew, Prince Joffrey Baratheon, refuses to pay his respects to Lord and Lady Stark after Bran's fall, Tyrion slaps him three times until he acquiesces. He then breakfasts with his family, where he reveals that he wants to go and visit the Wall - to see it and piss off of it, he says, to the laughter of Tommen and Myrcella, before returning to King's Landing. He takes an interest in Bran's fall and how it happened, 

Tyrion while in Winterfell noting carefully his brother and sister's reactions to the news that Bran is likely to live. 

On the road to Castle Black, Tyrion explains to Jon that he likes to read as it keeps his wits sharp, just as his brother's whetstone keeps his sword sharp. Reaching the Wall, even Tyrion is temporarily rendered speechless by the size and scale of the structure. During his stay, Tyrion watches the new recruits train. He realizes that Jon Snow, due to his advantages of being trained by a castle master-at-arms at Winterfell, is acting superior to his fellow recruits, embarrassing them by beating them easily in training. After Tyrion points this out, Jon begins helping the others train, earning their respect and friendship. Maester Aemon and Lord Commander Jeor Mormont ask him to use his influence at court to get more men and resources sent to the Night's Watch. Tyrion is sympathetic, but doesn't believe that there is anything more dangerous than wildlings beyond the Wall. However, Benjen Stark's account of life beyond the Wall gives him pause. Tyrion befriends Yoren, a recruiter for the Watch, and they agree to travel back to the capital together. 

Tyrion speaks with Bran. Pausing at Winterfell on the return trip home, Tyrion gives Bran plans for a special saddle so that he can ride even in his crippled state. He taunts Theon Greyjoy about his family's defeat during their uprising before leaving. Stopping at the Crossroads Inn on the way home, he is surprised to meet Catelyn Stark, and even more so when she denounces him as an attempted murderer and has him arrested by her father's bannermen to face the King's justice. She was told by Petyr Baelish that the knife used in the assassination attempt on Bran was one Tyrion won from Petyr by betting on a jousting tournament. Catelyn takes Tyrion, protesting his innocence, to the Eyrie. A sellsword from the inn, Bronn, accompanies them and notes Tyrion's wealth and a promise he will handsomely reward any man who aids him. Along the way they are attacked by some of the hill tribes and Tyrion kills his first man, bashing in the skull of an attacking tribesman with a shield. Tyrion warns Catelyn that her sister, Lysa, has become irrational with grief and will try to kill him. She is skeptical, but once at the Eyrie, Tyrion's warning proves accurate. 

Tyrion defends himself with the shield of House Bracken. Lysa hysterically accuses him not only of the attempted murder of Bran, but also of conspiring in that of her husband Jon Arryn, the former Hand of the King who died under mysterious circumstances, which Lysa tells Catelyn was one of the Lannisters' doing. Tyrion is thrown into one of the Eyrie's "sky-cells", dungeons which simply open on their fourth side to the open air with a drop of many thousands of feet to the valley below. 

 
 

 
 Tyrion bargains with his jailor, Mord, to get an audience with Lady Arryn. He "confesses" to being a whoremonger and dwarf, but truthfully insists that he is not guilty of the crime of murdering Jon Arryn or trying to murder Bran. He demands a trial by combat as is his right, and his wish is granted when the sellsword Bronn agrees to stand as his champion. Bronn defeats and kills Lady Arryn's champion, Ser Vardis Egen. By the laws of Westeros this means that Tyrion has proven his innocence in the eyes of the gods, and he is 

Tyrion in the sky cells of the Eyrie. released from the Eyrie to face the perilous journey back through the tribesman-infested hills. Bronn accompanies him. Tyrion establishes some ground rules with Bronn, saying he will pay more money than anyone else who attempts to bribe him to betray Tyrion. They are then surrounded by men of the hill tribes, led by Shagga. Tyrion uses his quick wit and words to win the allegiance of the tribes, offering to better equip them for battle and help them conquer the Vale of Arryn in return for their help. Shagga agrees, though he notes that if Tyrion tries to renege on his promise he will cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats. 

Tywin Lannister's forces have been attacking Catelyn's home in the Riverlands ever since she arrested Tyrion. It's not that he cares so much about Tyrion, he explains to Jaime, but because even though Tyrion is the least of them he is still a Lannister, and if they allow one of their own to be taken so easily, they risk losing the respect of the other Houses. The hillmen deliver Tyrion to his father's army, where he learns that Robb Stark is leading an army to war. Tyrion warns his father that Robb should not be underestimated. Tywin agrees to honor Tyrion's alliance with the hill tribes. When Shagga says they will only fight if Tyrion is with them on the field, Tywin also agrees, to Tyrion's dismay. 

Tyrion drinks with Bronn before battle. 

Tyrion is commanded by his father to lead the hill tribes into battle from the front. Feeling that his father means to kill him, Tyrion retires to his tent, where he finds that Bronn has found a prostitute for him, a girl named Shae. Tyrion attempts to learn more about Shae via a drinking game, but finds his questions deflected. Instead he tells her about his own past with Tysha, a wheelwright's daughter. They married and spent several happy weeks together until Tywin learned of the matter. Tywin had Jaime tell Tyrion the truth, that Tysha was a prostitute that Jaime had paid to make his brother happy for a while. Tywin then gave her a piece of silver for every one of his guards she had sex with while Tyrion was forced to watch. Since then Tyrion has never attempted to take a wife or lover, only whores he can pay and send on their way. 

Tyrion discusses the future with his father. 

The next morning, Tyrion leads the tribes into battle, but is knocked out by one of his own warriors' mis-swung hammers just as the engagement begins. Recovering after the battle, Tyrion learns from his father that Robb deceived them, delaying their army with a feinting force so the main Stark host can fall on and defeat Jaime's army in battle. With Jamie captured, Robb's forces now allied to those of the Riverlands and both Stannis and Renly Baratheon claiming the Iron Throne, the odds have swung against the Lannisters. Tywin risks being caught between three armies, so he retreats to Harrenhal. Tyrion makes shrewd observations about the ominous turn the current situation has taken now that Joffrey has killed Eddard Stark. Grudgingly impressed, Tywin orders Tyrion to report to King's Landing and act as the Hand of the King to try to keep Joffrey in line and execute any of the Small Council members if they try anything treasonous. Tywin forbids him to take "that whore" with him, but Tyrion defies him and asks Shae to come to King's Landing with him. Season 2 Tyrion arrives in King's Landing, accompanied by Bronn, Lannister-soldiers and members of the hill tribes. He assumes the 

Tyrion visits Myrcella, Joffrey, and Tommen upon his return to King's Landing. role of acting Hand of the King to Joffrey Baratheon, who isn't happy to see him, unlike Myrcella and Tommen. After taking his seat at the small council, he clashes with his sister, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister, over her failure to stop the execution of his predecessor as hand, Eddard Stark. He also criticizes her for allowing Arya Stark to escape, as the girl and her father could have been useful to bargain for the return of Jaime, and now they only have one Stark hostage instead of three. He installs Shae in the Tower of the Hand, in defiance of his father's orders. 

Tyrion warns Varys not to underestimate him after the Spider discovers Shae's presence and lets Tyrion know that he is aware of her. During a small council session, Tyrion finds himself the only sympathetic ear to a request by the Night's Watch for aid from the throne. He also criticizes Cersei's lack of talent for diplomacy when she rejects peace terms from Robb Stark brought by their cousin Ser Alton Lannister. Tyrion invites Lord Janos Slynt for dinner and gets him to confess his part in the recent massacre of King Robert's bastards as well as his part in the betrayal of Eddard. After openly noting Slynt's lack of honor, Tyrion has Lord Janos exiled to the Wall as punishment, and installs Bronn as commander of the City Watch in his place. 

Tyrion returns to King's Landing with Shae. 

Tyrion arranges for Shae to serve as a handmaiden to Sansa Stark when she demands more freedom. He tests the loyalty of the remaining small council members by feeding them varying plans for marriage alliances involving Princess Myrcella Baratheon. He is confronted by Cersei about sending Myrcella to Dorne in a betrothal to the youngest son of House Martell. Tyrion has Pycelle thrown into the black cells for revealing the information given only to him. Varys congratulates him for the ploy to lure out the Queen's informant. Tyrion is also confronted by an angry Petyr Baelish for having been unwittingly involved in the ruse; nevertheless, Tyrion recruits Littlefinger in a plan to convince Catelyn Stark to release Jaime, offering him Harrenhal and the title of Lord Paramount of the Riverlands. 

Tyrion is shocked and furious to find Joffrey orchestrating the public beating of Sansa for her brother's victory in the Battle of Oxcross. He orders a halt to the proceedings, and warns Joffrey to consider his actions more carefully, lest he wants to suffer the same fate as the Mad King. He then escorts Sansa out of the throne room. Bronn suggests that Joffrey would benefit from sexual release. Tyrion arranges for two whores for his nephew but Joffrey forces one to beat the other as a message to Tyrion. Lancel Lannister visits Tyrion to demand the release of Pycelle on Cersei's behalf. Tyrion notes the lateness 

Tyrion during his tenure as Hand of the King. of the hour and traps Lancel into admitting his sexual relationship with Cersei. Tyrion uses the information to blackmail Lancel into acting as his informant. Tyrion reports news of King Renly Baratheon's death to Cersei. She is pleased, but Tyrion predicts Stannis Baratheon's imminent attack having assumed control of Renly's men. He tries to discuss plans for their defense, but she insists on keeping them secret. He learns that she is reliant of the Alchemists' Guild from Lancel. He visits Wisdom Hallyne and learns that the guild have stockpiled thousands of jars of Wildfire to use as catapult ammunition. Bronn sees this strategy as potentially disastrous because of the volatile nature of wildfire. Tyrion orders Hallyne to answer to him instead of Cersei. He passes a street protest that blames him for the ills of the city, as the people believe him to be manipulating Joffrey. Tyrion and the court assemble at the shore of Blackwater Bay for the departure of Princess Myrcella. Cersei remains angry about Tyrion's arrangements for her daughter. She threatens to one day deprive him of someone he loves. As they return to the Red Keep through the city, they are confronted by angry crowds 

Tyrion and Cersei watch as Myrcella departs for Dorne. of starving Smallfolk. After Tyrion orders a guard to escort Prince Tommen back to the Keep, Joffrey is hit by thrown excrement and triggers a riot by demanding that his guards kill everyone in the crowd. Tyrion is horrified when the High Septon is torn to pieces by the famished crowd. He marshals his guards to lead him to safety. 

Once he is safely separated from the riot, Tyrion confronts Joffrey for triggering the riot and the war that preceded it, calling him a vicious idiot. He slaps Joffrey when his nephew refuses to listen to the criticism. Tyrion orders Meryn Trant to retrieve the missing Sansa, knowing that Jamie's life is also on the line, but Meryn will not follow his orders. He is relieved when Sandor Clegane brings her to safety. 

Cersei confesses that she feels that Joffrey's viciousness might be the price she pays for her sin of incest with Jaime. Tyrion does not know how to comfort his sister in this rare moment of vulnerability, but reminds her that both Myrcella and Tommen are kind and gentle. Word that Stannis' fleet is days away reinforces the need to control Joffrey. Tyrion turns to books for insight into siege defense tactics, but Bronn warns that the grim realities of a siege cannot be understood from reading. Tyrion affirms the loyalty of Varys and is enigmatic about his plans for the battle, but believes Stannis will attack at the Mud Gate. Joffrey is keen to fight in defense of the city. Cersei is furious and suspects Tyrion of trying to kill her son. 

Tyrion rallies the Lannister troops. She mistakenly identifies Ros as his lover because of the Lannister pendant Tyrion gave her and seizes the opportunity to deliver on the threat she made when Myrcella left. Cersei has the prostitute kidnapped as insurance against Tyrion placing Joffrey in harm's way. She reveals her ploy over dinner. Tyrion is relieved that Shae is unhurt, vows to free Ros and when the prostitute is taken away, he promises Cersei that he will exact revenge on her. He rushes back to his lover's side and confesses the depth of his feeling for her while warning that they must be doubly careful. 

Tyrion at the Battle of the Blackwater. 

Tyrion leads the defense of the city during the Battle of the Blackwater. He commands the defenders at the Mud Gate. He destroys a large portion of the attacking fleet by luring them into a trap; a ship filled with Wildfire and allowed to leak its cargo into the bay. He signals Bronn to detonate the Wildfire using a flaming arrow. Stannis continues with the assault, landing his troops further out in the bay to avoid the devastation of the explosion. Tyrion's initial attempts to repel the attackers are unsuccessful and Cersei has Joffrey withdrawn to the Red Keep, with the King leaving Ser Mandon Moore and Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard to fight in his name. Tyrion is faced with increasing dissent from his troops but rallies them with a rousing speech. He personally leads a sortie through the tunnels under the city, destroying Stannis' siege equipment. He is trapped outside the walls by a group of reinforcements and then betrayed by Ser Mandon. Mandon slashes Tyrion across the face but Podrick kills him before he can finish Tyrion off. As Tyrion collapses into unconsciousness a host of Lannister-Tyrell reinforcements led by a man wearing Renly's armor arrives to claim the victory. 

Tyrion shows Shae his scarred face 

Tyrion awakens to find Pycelle looming over him. The reinstated Grand Maester gloatingly informs Tyrion that he has been relieved as Acting Hand of the King and moved to new chambers. Tyrion rejects pain relief, fearing that his enemy will poison him. He calls for Podrick to summon his allies, Varys and Bronn. Varys visits Tyrion and regretfully tells him that although his leadership was key to saving the city he will not be recognized by King Joffrey. He also reports that Bronn has been relieved of his command and his tribesmen have taken their plunder and gone home. Varys offers a small consolation; he has brought Shae to see Tyrion. Varys leaves them alone and Shae removes Tyrion's bandages to reveal a scar marring his whole face. Tyrion is self-pitying; she angrily asserts her love for him and begs him to flee to Pentos with her. He says that standing up to the bad people in his life, out-talking and out-thinking them, is something that he is good at and enjoys. He chooses to stay in King's Landing and she agrees to remain with him. Season 3 

Tyrion meets with his father. After speaking with his sister,&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;requests his father give him&nbsp;Casterly Rock, as Jaime gave up all rights of inheritance when he joined the Kingsguard. This&nbsp;leaves&nbsp;Tyrion as the next in lawful line of succession as Lord of Casterly Rock.&nbsp;Tywin&nbsp;hatefully spites his son for&nbsp;"killing"&nbsp;his mother in childbirth, and saying that he will never make&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;heir to&nbsp;Casterly Rock, considering him an abomination and a curse who would only humiliate the family name and turn&nbsp;Casterly&nbsp;Rock into a brothel. As&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;leaves, Tywin warns him that if he catches another whore in his bed he will hang her.&nbsp;Tyrion is surprised to understand that Bronn has been knighted and styles himself as "Ser Bronn of the Blackwater". 

Later, Tyrion informs Shae that she cannot keep visiting his bed chambers as Tywin has now banned him from ever being with her again. 

Tyrion and Ser Bronn learn from Podrick. 

In a Small Council meeting, Tyrion is made Master of Coin by his father after it is announced the departure of Lord Baelish to the Eyrie. Following the meeting, Tyrion, Podrick Payne and Ser Bronn visit the brothel where Tyrion provides the young Pod with a late gift, thanking him for his heroism on the battlefield at Blackwater. Leaving Podrick with his gift, the young squire later returns to Tyrion and Ser Bronn while they're drinking and discussing King's Landing's endless debt to the Bank of Braavos, and they are intrigued to learn how he managed to leave the brothel without having to pay the girls. 

Escorted by Varys to a dark room, Tyrion is finally told the story of how the eunuch was travelling through the Free Cities with a party of actors. It is revealed that he was castrated by a male sorcerer who spoke to the air and 'something' answered him. Varys then pries open the box in the room and reveals the Sorcerer who had done this terrible deed. 

Tyrion &amp; Cersei ponder their forced marriages. 

Lady Olenna Tyrell explains to Tyrion that House Tyrell will support the cost of the wedding between Joffrey and Margaery. Following this, Lord Tywin summons both Tyrion&nbsp;and&nbsp;Cersei to his chambers&nbsp;to inform them of his plans to wed them off, Cersei to Loras&nbsp;Tyrell and&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;to Sansa&nbsp;Stark, who Tywin explains will be heir to Winterfell after he defeats Robb Stark, thus giving the Lannisters a future foothold in the North. 

Cersei and Tyrion are evidently reluctant to consider these marriages, but as they do, Tyrion brings up the question of who employed Ser Mandon Moore to kill Tyrion. Cersei, of course, denies her involvement, but Tyrion is still suspicious. 

In result, Tyrion hesitantly marries Sansa. At the night of their wedding, Tyrion gets drunk and threatens Joffrey with castration after the latter commands him to carry out the bedding ceremony with Sansa. Tywin calms Joffrey and Tyrion takes Sansa to his bedchamber, where he tells her that his lord father has commanded him to consumate the marriage. As Sansa begins to disrobe, Tyrion refuses, insisting that he won't bed her until she wants him to, then he passes out drunk. 

Tyrion &amp; Sansa at their wedding night. After his marriage, Tyrion starts bonding with Sansa and lightly enhances his relationship with her. Later, Tywin calls a meeting of the small council where Joffrey&nbsp;happily informs him that Robb and Catelyn Stark have both been murdered at the Red Wedding by Walder Frey. He orders Grand Maester Pycelle to thank Frey and command him to send Robb Stark's head, which he will serve to Sansa at his wedding, fulfilling an earlier promise to her. However, Tyrion threatens him yet again before Pycelle can send any messages to The Twins. After the end of the&nbsp;meeting, Tywin and Tyrion discuss the details of what consequences the Red Wedding might have on the war. Tyrion knows that Walder Frey will receive all the credit for the massacre, but also the blame, and correctly deduces that Tywin is the true mastermind behind the Wedding, much to his displeasure. Tywin reminds him that he still has to impregnate Sansa Stark, but Tyrion assures him that he can't and won't do it even forcefully. Tywin lectures Tyrion on protecting family legacy and that the house that puts family first will always prevail over the family the fulfills the wishes of its sons and daughters first. Tyrion accuses Tywin and protests that he has never done something for the benefit of the family that wasn't in his interest. Tywin tells him that 

Tyrion is wed to Sansa Stark. when he was born, he wanted to leave him in the sea and let the waves take him away, and that he instead he let him live and raised him because he is a Lannister. Afterwards, he&nbsp;returns to Sansa, who is in tears having heard of her brother and mother's tragedy. 

Later, Cersei visits Tyrion and informs him that she won't be marrying Ser Loras. She also advises him to give Sansa children, to which Tyrion responds by asking her how happy is she with her children. Cersei admits that if it wasn't for her children, she would've killed herself, even for Joffrey. She ponders how happy he used to be in his infant years and how much he brought such joy in her life at that time, and that neither Joffrey nor anyone else can take that away from her. Season 4 Tyrion&nbsp;is sent to welcome Prince Doran Martell to King's Landing. As he, Podrick, and Bronn are expecting 

Tyrion awaits the arrival of Prince Doran Martell. the Dornishman, they spot Martell bannermen coming their way. Tyrion greets them, but they inform him that Prince Doran's declining health prevents him from leaving Sunspear, and therefore he has sent his brother Prince Oberyn Martell to attend King Joffrey's wedding in his stead. They also explain that Oberyn went ahead and entered the city before dawn. Tyrion quickly puts together that he may be at one of Littlefinger's brothels. When Tyrion arrives, he finds Prince Oberyn stabbing a man's hand for singing The Rains Of Castamere. He is introduced to Oberyn's paramour, Ellaria Sand, and asks the Dornishman to talk in private. He asks him why he came to the capital and Oberyn tells him that he was invited to the royal wedding. Tyrion knows he's lying and asks for the honest truth. Oberyn remembers how Rhaegar Targaryen wed his sister Elia, and how his involvement with another woman started Robert's Rebellion. He tells Tyrion that the war ended with his father sacking the city while "The Mountain" (Ser Gregor Clegane) brutally murdered Elia's children, then raped and murdered her. He orders Tyrion to tell his father that he's here, and warns him that the Lannisters are not the only ones who pay their debts. 

Oberyn warns Tyrion. 

Afterwards, he visits a deeply depressed Sansa and tries to comfort her by telling her that her brother and mother were good people. In tears, she tells him the grueling details of how they died. Tyrion advises her to stay strong, as that is what her mother would want. Sansa leaves to go to the godswood and she tells Tyrion that she doesn't pray anymore, and instead goes because nobody is talking to her there. Distraught, he returns to his bedchamber, where Shae is waiting for him. She tries to pleasure him but Tyrion refuses. Shae questions him if he's really in love with Sansa. Tyrion says that he doesn't and this time, Shae asks him if he wants her out of the city. After getting no answer, she storms out of his bedchamber, and it is revealed that one of Cersei's spies heard the whole conversation. 

In the days following, Tyrion, along with other noblemen and women present in King's Landing, attend the breakfast on the morning of Joffrey and Margaery Tyrell's wedding. He meets Varys before arriving, who informs him of Cersei's spy and Cersei's consequent knowledge of Shae's presence, and warns him that Tywin will know shortly. Varys also warns him that he will not protect Tyrion or Shae against the former's father and sister out of regard for his own safety. At the breakfast, Tyrion observes Cersei's indication of Shae to her father as "the whore I told you about". Tywin subsequently requests that she be brought to the Tower of the Hand before the wedding. Tyrion then presents the groom a gift of a tome detailing the reigns of Daeron, the Young Dragon; Baelor the Blessed; Aegon the Unworthy and Daeron the Good. This is met with surprising approval and gratitude from the King until he is presented with a Valyrian steel sword by his grandfather and proceeds to demonstrate the blade's sharpness by destroying the book with it. 

After the breakfast, Tyrion meets with Shae in his quarters and shows uncharacteristic and confusing coldness towards her despite her gestures of affection. He terminates their "friendship" and informs her that she is to leave and go to live in Pentos, telling her that she must do so in order for him to uphold her marital vows to Sansa. She deduces that he is afraid of his sister and father and expresses her desire to fight them alongside him. As she draws closer, Tyrion yells at her, calling her a whore, and states her unfitness to bear his children, in contrast to Sansa's. Bronn arrives to escort the sobbing Shae to the docks, resulting in her slapping him and storming off. 

Joffrey insults Tyrion at the former's wedding feast. 

At the wedding feast, Joffrey organizes some entertainment: five dwarfs mockingly re-enacting the War of the Five Kings. Tyrion, disgusted, instructs Podrick to pay each dwarf 20 gold dragons after the show. At the conclusion of the show, Joffrey suggests Tyrion fight the former's dwarf counterpart. Tyrion politely declines and sarcastically voices awe at Joffrey's skill and bravery at the Battle of the Blackwater and his desire to see them again. Insulted at the disrespectful undertone, Joffrey pours his wine over Tyrion's head in an immature show of superiority. He then instructs Tyrion to act as his cup-bearer, before kicking the goblet under a table, forcing Tyrion to handle it several times. He finally orders him to kneel and Tyrion, obviously possessing no intention to do so, is saved by the arrival of the pigeon pie. He attempts to leave with Sansa, but is spotted by Joffrey, who commands him to remain and continue his duties as his cup-bearer. Tyrion hands the king his goblet, who begins to choke after drinking from it. In his final moments, Joffrey points to Tyrion, apparently accusing him, as the latter inspects the goblet for poison, and he is seized and arrested by members of the Kingsguard on Cersei's orders. 

After Tyrion has been incarcerated, he gets a visit from Podrick who smuggles in some food and writing materials to help him get through prison life. He informs Tyrion of Sansa's disappearance.&nbsp;Tyrion is sure that Sansa had nothing to do with the murder. Just as Pod leaves he turns around and tells Tyrion about a man whom he didn't know offering him a knighthood if he testified against him. Tyrion knew that it wasn't a suggestion, and soon enough, they'll threaten him with something worse. Tyrion advises Pod to leave King's Landing, sending him off with a final farewell. 

At&nbsp;Bronn's intervention, Jaime comes to see Tyrion. Jaime tries to comfort Tyrion and says that he suffered much worse with the North. Jaime asks Tyrion if he did it and Tyrion says he would never kill his brother's son, no matter how despicable he turned out to be. Tyrion asks Jaime to set him free, but Jaime says he can't because of treason and says the trial will get to the truth. Tyrion knows that the trial doesn't matter: Cersei won't rest until Tyrion is dead. Jaime then goes on to him believing that Sansa had something to do with the murder, but Tyrion is again adamant that Sansa is innocent. 

Tyrion's trial begins with the newly-crowned&nbsp;King&nbsp;Tommen&nbsp;recusing himself. Instead, a group of three judges are 

Tyrion is cross-examined by Prince Oberyn Martell, Lord Tywin Lannister, and Lord Mace Tyrell. 

appointed to oversee the trial: Tywin Lannister as presiding judge, Lord&nbsp;Mace Tyrell&nbsp;of the&nbsp;Reach, and Prince Oberyn. Cersei has several witnesses testify against Tyrion, such as&nbsp;Meryn Trant,&nbsp;Grand Maester&nbsp;Pycelle, and&nbsp;Varys. They all give strong (yet circumstantial) evidence of Tyrion's guilt. He seems particularly hurt by Varys's betrayal, so much that he asks the spymaster whether he remembered what he had told him after the Battle of the Blackwater (that Tyrion had saved the city and that Varys knew it even if history wouldn't). Varys sadly tells Tyrion that he never forgets anything. After an hour's recess, Jaime comes to Tyrion and tells him that, when the verdict of guilty is pronounced, he must ask for mercy. Secretly, Jaime had made a deal with Tywin: in exchange for sparing Tyrion, Jaime will renounce his vows and return to Casterly Rock as Tywin's heir, while Tyrion will be sent to live out his days on The Wall with the Night's Watch. Tyrion points out that their father wanted this outcome all along. However, Cersei calls in her last witness:&nbsp;Shae. A hurt Tyrion can do little as Shae reveals his sexual&nbsp;pleasures in front of the court and his supposed desire to bed Sansa Stark, which she agreed to let him do if he killed the King for her. Tyrion's anger at the betrayal leads him to lash out: he angrily states that&nbsp;he had saved&nbsp;King's Landing&nbsp;from Stannis, and that when he saw how all turned on him for killing a king that they all hated, he wished that he had let Stannis kill them all. Tywin attempts to&nbsp;silence Tyrion&nbsp;but his son turns on Cersei, declaring that he was innocent of killing Joffrey but wished he had, adding with gleeful venom that he derived more relief from watching her "vicious bastard" of a son die than he could have gotten from a thousand lying whores. He then turns on Tywin and calls the trial a farce and that it is really a repetition of the trial he had been on since he was born: for the crime of being a dwarf. Not wanting to submit to the "justice" that was being served on him, Tyrion demanded a&nbsp;trial by combat.&nbsp; 

Bronn refuses to be Tyrion's champion in trial by combat. 

In his cell,&nbsp;Tyrion and&nbsp;Jaime&nbsp;discuss Tyrion's fate and the irony of Lord&nbsp;Tywin&nbsp;striking down both his heirs if Jaime were to die being Tyrion's champion; Jaime declines to be Tyrion's champion as he cannot fight well enough with his left hand. Tyrion asks Jaime to bring him&nbsp;Bronn. Bronn arrives in the clothes of a lord, with news that he is to marry Lollys Stokeworth, a noble's daughter, in a match arranged by&nbsp;Cersei. He will not fight&nbsp;the Mountain&nbsp;(whom Cersei has chosen for her champion), believing Clegane to be too dangerous for him to face, and bids farewell to Tyrion. They share a final handshake and part on good terms. Later, Tyrion is approached by&nbsp;Oberyn Martell, who tells Tyrion of their first encounter: As children, Oberyn and his sister&nbsp;Elia were told stories of the "monster" that had been born to Tywin Lannister. During a childhood visit to&nbsp;Casterly Rock, Cersei showed Tyrion, with great ceremony, to Oberyn and Elia. Oberyn tells Tyrion that, to his disappointment, he saw no monster, just a baby. Cersei told Oberyn and his sister that&nbsp;Tyrion killed her mother, and then cruelly assaulted&nbsp;Tyrion until Jaime stopped her. Oberyn tells Tyrion that he seeks justice for the death of his sister, and Tyrion replies that he will "find none here". Oberyn counters that he is in the perfect place; all those he means to bring to justice for his sister's murder are close at hand. Intending to start his revenge with Gregor Clegane, Oberyn offers his service as Tyrion's champion in the coming trial by combat. 

On the day of the trial by combat, Jaime visits Tyrion in his cell. They discuss their dead cousin Orson Lannister and his habit of smashing beetles with rocks for no reason. Tyrion says he used to watch Orson for long periods of time and think about the reason behind his actions, but he hasn't come to any conclusion why all those countless beetles had to be killed. When Jaime says he doesn't know either, bells start tolling and he wishes Tyrion good luck. Tyrion is taken to watch the duel of Oberyn and the Mountain bound in shackles. Before the fight starts, he advises Oberyn against drinking wine, but he doesn't pay a lot of attention to him. As the Red Viper starts winning, he exchanges a few hopeful looks with his brother and feels happy when Oberyn pins Ser Gregor to the ground with his spear, but his hopes are quickly shattered in the moment when the Mountain knocks Oberyn down and crushes his head, confessing his own war crimes and sealing Tyrion's fate. As Tyrion is&nbsp;struck with horror, Tywin states that the gods have made their will known and Tyrion is sentenced to death. 

Tyrion confronts Tywin as Tywin is on the privy 

Tyrion is surprised when Jaime comes to his cell in the night and leads him&nbsp;through a secret passageway within the castle. He tells Tyrion that he will meet with Varys, who has arranged for him to escape to the Free Cities. The brothers warmly embrace, believing it will be the last time they see each other. Jaime leaves him with a familial kiss on the cheek. Instead of proceeding directly to his liaison,&nbsp;Tyrion first&nbsp;enters the chambers of their father. He finds a woman&nbsp;in his father's bed, and is shocked to discover that it is Shae, moaning Tywin's name and calling for her "lion," the name she had previously reserved for Tyrion. When Shae spots him, she grabs a paring knife and tries to stab him. She fails to do so but slaps him and scratches at his face. They struggle, and Tyrion eventually strangles her with Tywin's gold chain she is wearing.&nbsp;The act is done both in self defense and in jealous rage, and Tyrion is immediately distraught once he fully realizes what he has done. After apologizing to Shae's corpse, he takes Joffrey's crossbow and confronts his father while in his privy chamber. He forces his father to admit to his many wrongdoings against him.&nbsp;Tywin tries to placate Tyrion, but when he refers to Shae as a "whore" once too often after having been warned not to do so, Tyrion&nbsp;kills him with two bolts to the chest. He proceeds to the chamber of Lord Varys, who stows him away within a crate upon a ship, and decides to accompany him at the last moment. Season 5 

Varys and Tyrion in Pentos. 

With the aid of Varys, Tyrion is brought to the home of Illyrio Mopatis in Pentos. Varys attempts to persuade Tyrion to assist in his goal to restore House Targaryen to the Iron Throne, but Tyrion simply wishes to drink himself to death after all that he has been through. 

Later, Tyrion questions Varys on his motives of setting him free. Varys reveals his brother Jaime had asked him to and that he did for the benefit of the Seven Kingdoms. Varys then states that his goal was to bring peace and prosperity upon the kingdoms where those without power would never be prey to those who do; Tyrion merely states in a jaded tone that the former will always become prey to the latter, which is how the powerful become and stay that way in the first place. The two discuss that the Seven Kingdoms needs a ruler stronger than Tommen, but gentler than Stannis. Tyrion wishes Varys luck on trying to find the right man, but Varys makes Tyrion one final offer. Varys tells him that he can simply drink himself to death here in Pentos, or ride with him to Meereen to meet Daenerys Targaryen. After a moment, Tyrion agrees. 

Tyrion and Varys discuss on their way to Meereen. 

Tyrion and Varys depart Pentos in a large carriage. Tyrion remains despondent, and as he promised, he is continuing to drink himself into a stupor. Varys explains that they are travelling to Meereen by way of Volantis. Varys points out that Tyrion was an effective ruler when he was acting Hand of the King, and that each of them were outsiders due to their deformities (a eunuch and a dwarf). They enjoyed accumulating power, he says, but they also wall themselves off from other people, like hiding inside of a large carriage as they are now - but deep down they were never satisfied being separate from society. Tyrion is unmoved from his depression, and continues to insist that he's tired of being confined in a box of some sort. Varys, however, again warns him that he must remain hidden and it is unsafe to be seen publicly: Cersei has promised a lordship to any man who brings her his head. Tyrion scoffs and rhetorically asks if Cersei is going to kill every dwarf in the world in the hope of eventually catching him. 

Tyrion is captured by Jorah on a brothel in Volantis. 

After days of confinement in the carriage, an impatient Tyrion eventually opts to get through Volantis on foot. When they arrive in the city, Varys reluctantly agrees to it, though only for a little while. They visit a brothel where they see a prostitute cosplaying as Daenerys. However, Tyrion goes elsewhere to relieve himself, and in the process, he is caught and abducted by Jorah Mormont, who intends to take him to "the Queen". 

Now at the mercy of his captor, Tyrion is thrown into a stolen boat by Jorah and they set sail for Meereen. En route, Tyrion pesters Jorah with muffled whining until he relents and removes Tyrion's gag. Tyrion notices that they are traveling east and not west towards Cersei in King's Landing. Jorah reveals that he is taking Tyrion to the queen he serves, Daenerys Targaryen. Tyrion is pleasantly surprised and tries to convince Jorah that they are on the same side since he was traveling to meet Daenerys anyway. He accurately deduces who Jorah is by his appearance and equipment, and correctly assumes that Jorah must have been banished by Daenerys because she discovered that he was spying on her for Varys. Tyrion mockingly asks Jorah if he really believes that he will earn a pardon for simply delivering him to Daenerys, believing the opposite outcome just as likely. Fed up with his captive, Jorah strikes Tyrion across the face to keep him quiet. 

Tyrion and Jorah sail through the ruins of Valyria. Tyrion and Jorah eventually reach the ruins of Old Valyria, hoping to pass through undetected by other ships. As they approach, they notice, to their amazement, Drogon flying overhead, though he does not notice them. They are suddenly attacked by Stone Men, men whose greyscale infection has reached its pinnacle and transformed them into feral monsters. During the fight, Tyrion falls overboard and dragged under by a stone man, but he is rescued by Jorah and they make it to a beach, where Tyrion regains consciousness. Jorah finally frees Tyrion from his binds and notices that none of the stone men managed to touch him. Tyrion thanks Jorah for saving his life, and they decide to seek out a fishing village to acquire another boat, or walk the rest of the way to Meereen. Jorah tells Tyrion to get some rest as he goes for firewood, but unbeknownst to Tyrion, Jorah has been infected with greyscale. 

Tyrion and Jorah continue their quest to Meereen on foot. Tyrion openly questions Jorah's motives, and when Jorah claims that he came to believe in Daenerys when he saw her emerge from the fire unharmed with the dragon hatchlings, Tyrion is convinced, but still expresses doubt as to whether or not Daenerys will be a good ruler, given that her family was known for succumbing to madness due to their compound inbreeding, particularly her father, who many still call the Mad King. However, they are spotted and captured by slavers bound for Volantis. The lead slaver, Malko, deems Tyrion as useless and orders his throat cut and his penis removed to be sold to a cock merchant (as he believes dwarf cocks bring good luck). Tyrion, however, convinces them to do it when they have reached the cock merchant, buying himself some time, and when Malko mentions that Daenerys has re-opened the fighting pits in Meereen, Tyrion successfully convinces Malko to take them to Meereen in order to put Jorah, who is a renowned Westerosi fighter, in the fighting pits and make them rich. 

On the outskirts of Meereen, after Jorah is sold to Yezzan zo Qaggaz, Tyrion attempts to convince Yezzan to buy him as well, and viciously beats his captor with his own chain to prove his worth. Yezzan relents and buys Tyrion, but mostly for his comedic value. They are taken to Daznak's pit, a small fighting pit, which will celebrate the opening of the games. When they hear that Daenerys is present, Jorah immediately enters the fight in the arena, while Tyrion struggles to cut his chain until a guard comes and does it for him. Tyrion enters the arena just as Jorah is being taken away (since Daenerys still hasn't forgiven him), and reveals himself as Jorah's "gift". He introduces himself as Tyrion Lannister, and meets Daenerys face-to-face at last. 

Both Tyrion and Jorah are brought before Daenerys inside the Great Pyramid. Daenerys initially advocates executing Tyrion as revenge against the Lannisters for betraying her family, but Tyrion points out that he killed his mother in childbirth and shot his father in the heart before fleeing. She asks him advice on what to do with Jorah. Tyrion persuades her to spare him, but suggests banishing him again, since he did effectively betray her trust. Later, while having wine, Tyrion and Daenerys agree that they both had cruel fathers, and Tyrion promises to explain why he killed Tywin someday, should she decide to spare him. Tyrion admits that though he believes Daenerys is no better than her father, he admits that he travelled to Meereen because Varys convinced him that she may very well be the best monarch for the Seven Kingdoms. He believes that Varys was correct in his assessment, and notes that Varys is the only person he can trust, aside from his brother Jaime. The mention of Jaime, who killed her father, prompts Daenerys to suggest executing Tyrion, but Tyrion reacts with indifference, claiming that he was ready to drink himself to death in Pentos and still welcomes death if Daenerys prefers it, given the rate of how his own life had become as of late. 

Tyrion and Daenerys discussing matters of family and politics 

Daenerys ultimately decides not to kill or banish Tyrion, but to take him as an advisor on how to reclaim the Iron Throne. Tyrion suggests that Daenerys stay in Meereen, as she may do more good in Essos than in Westeros. Daenerys assures Tyrion that she will stay where she is presently to ensure that the slave trade stays broken but states that Essos is not her home. Tyrion counters that no one will support her in Westeros, but Daenerys somewhat idealistically declares that the common people will support her. Tyrion generously assumes that this will happen (which it generally doesn't), but then he reminds Daenerys that Meereen has been in a state of chaos without the combined support of the Great Masters and the smallfolk, and extends this to Westeros and its Great Houses. He notes that Houses Targaryen and Stark are effectively dead or scattered due to the combined actions of their "two terrible fathers". Neither House Lannister nor House Baratheon of Dragonstone will ever support her claim in light of their histories with the Targaryens. Tyrion says that leaves House Tyrell, who originally sided with the Crown in Robert's Rebellion and might be willing to help her due to Cersei's recent schemes against them, but that it still isn't enough. Daenerys stubbornly likens the Great Houses, including her own House Targaryen, to spokes on a wheel: one on top of the others, and on and on, crushing the commoners beneath them in their struggle for supremacy. Tyrion sarcastically warns that others have dreamed of stopping the wheel, but Daenerys clarifies that she isn't planning to stop the wheel, she intends to break it. 

Tyrion is left struck with awe as Daenerys escapes the pit on her dragon. 

Tyrion attends the opening of the Great Games in Daznak's Pit along with Daenerys, Hizdahr zo Loraq, Daario Naharis and Missandei. He playfully banters with Hizdahr and Daario about which fighters will win owing to what advantages, such as strength or speed, and after Hizdahr lectures Daenerys about the requisitions of holding onto power, Tyrion coldly quips that Tywin would have liked him. In the second round of the games, Jorah appears as one of the combatants and is almost killed. Tyrion urges Daenerys to stop the games before Jorah is killed, but he is saved by another fighter. Suddenly, a surprise attack by the Sons of the Harpy devastates the fighting pit. Tyrion saves Missandei by killing one of the Sons and he runs with Daenerys and the others into the center of the fighting pit, where they are surrounded. He later watches in obvious shock when Drogon enters the pit and sets several Sons ablaze. When Daenerys flies off on Drogon's back, Tyrion is left struck with awe as he watches her fly through the sky on dragon back. 

In the aftermath, Tyrion sits in the throne room with Daario and Jorah. Grey Worm recovers and Missandei introduces him to Tyrion. Tyrion concludes that since Drogon flew North, they must head in that direction if they are to find Daenerys, getting into an argument with Jorah over his status as a Lannister and Jorah having betrayed and been exiled twice by Daenerys. Daario breaks up the argument, convincing Tyrion to trust Jorah, since he did save Daenerys in the fighting pit, but at the same time questions Tyrion's skills in tracking and combat and deeming him unfit to join in such a dangerous mission. Instead, Daario advises Tyrion to stay in Meereen and rule on Daenerys's behalf, knowing of his political skills from his time as Hand of the King, with Grey Worm enforcing Tyrion's rule with the Unsullied and Missandei as interpreter, wishing him luck on keeping the city together. 

Tyrion and Varys watch over Meereen 

Later on, Tyrion watches Daario and Jorah depart Meereen to find Daenerys from atop the pyramid. He is joined by Varys, who playfully teases him for "abandoning" him and admits he found him through his little birds. Varys congratulates Tyrion for winning Daenerys's favor without him. Varys alludes to the political instability in Meereen, and the opportunities it presents for Tyrion. Through their bantering, they vow to help each other hold Meereen together. Tyrion then wholeheartedly admits that he missed Varys. Season 6 

Tyrion, Varys, Missandei, and Grey Worm continue to try to maintain control over Meereen. Personality 

Tyrion recognized from an early age that his mind was his greatest weapon, due to being born a member of House Lannister&nbsp;with the expectation of&nbsp;upholding his family's noble name, yet lacking the physical attributes possessed by his older siblings. Thus, he has committed himself to possessing a sharp intellect in order to help make up for his dwarfism, and he&nbsp;is frequently able to use his superior intellect to get the better of those who initially look down upon him or weasel his way out of tight situations, though he is not above resorting to using his family name and enormous fortune to bolster his position. He has also shown himself to possess a keen mind for strategy, as is evidenced in his research into defending against sieges and successfully conducting the defense of King's Landing during the Battle of the Blackwater. Tyrion&nbsp;prides himself on&nbsp;his ability to read people as easily as he does books, and he has on many occasions easily gotten the better of not just&nbsp;Joffrey and Cersei but also experienced players such as Littlefinger&nbsp;and Pycelle.&nbsp; 

Despite his harsh treatment at the hands of others over the years,&nbsp;Tyrion has managed to develop a thick skin, able to brush off others' japes about his short stature (except when coming from his father). Tyrion advised Jon Snow how to handle his own bastard status, which reflects Tyrion's own approach to life: take your impediment in stride and wear it like armor, so it cannot be used to hurt you. Being born a dwarf and subject to ridicule for most of his life,&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;has admittedly developed a soft spot for his fellow outcasts and has shown them kindness, such as having a saddle designed for the crippled Bran Stark allowing him to ride. Being physically weak, Tyrion is also upset when the helpless are harmed. He was particularly insulted when Janos Slynt carried out an order to kill a defenseless baby girl, Barra (because she was one of Robert's bastards), and as punishment had him exiled to the Wall. Tyrion is also genuinely loyal to those who treat him with love and respect. He also seemed to have a level of honor and dignity that his family seemed to lack; events such as the Red Wedding disgusted him, and he considered them to be crimes. However, Tyrion did admit that cheating was necessary for war. 

Tyrion, however, is not without faults. He tends to overindulge in food, drink, and sex in part to self-medicate for the terrible treatment he's suffered most of his life. Tyrion can also act vicious if he feels he's been wronged (like confining Grand Maester Pycelle to the Black Cells for betraying him or, in his darkest hour, killing Shae for testifying against him during his trial and having an affair with his father, and then going on to kill Tywin himself). Because his father and sister&nbsp;treated him like a social leper, Tyrion craves love and acceptance and is genuinely hurt when this is denied him by others.&nbsp; 

He has complex relationships with other members of his family, most of whom resent him and only thinly veil their contempt for his existence. His older sister&nbsp;Cersei&nbsp;blames him for causing the death of their mother and has (as revealed during a conversation with&nbsp;Oberyn) hated&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;since his birth. His father,&nbsp;Tywin, shares&nbsp;Cersei's resentment for&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;due to the death of his wife while birthing him. 

Only his older brother Jaime maintains a good relationship with&nbsp;Tyrion, admiring him for both his intellect and inability to let his diminished stature drag him down, and he has frequently attempted to come to&nbsp;Tyrion's&nbsp;defense when his other family members attempt to treat him maliciously, making Jaime the only member of his immediate family whom Tyrion loves. Tyrion&nbsp;harbors a mutual admiration for Jaime, even naming him as his champion when he demanded a trial by combat while being held prisoner at the&nbsp;Eyrie. Appearances TV series Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Video game Telltale Game Series appearances Iron From Ice The Lost Lords The Sword in the Darkness Sons of Winter A Nest of Vipers The Ice Dragon Image gallery Tyrion with Ros in the North in "Winter is Coming." Tyrion in Winterfell in "Winter is Coming." Tyrion in the woods with Jon Snow in "The Kingsroad." Tyrion befriending Yoren at Castle Black in "Lord Snow." Tyrion is taken captive by knights loyal to House Tully in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things." Tyrion defends himself using the shield of a man-at-arms sworn to House Bracken in the Vale of Arryn. Promotional image from "The Wolf and the Lion." Tyrion is presented at the Eyrie by Catelyn Stark and Ser Vardis Egen. Promotional image from "The Wolf and the Lion." Tyrion on trial at the Eyrie in "A Golden Crown." Tyrion prepares the Hill Clans for the Battle of the Green Fork in "Baelor." Promotional image of Tyrion as Hand of the King in Season 2 Tyrion arrives in King's Landing in "The North Remembers." Tyrion's HBO promo Season 2 picture. Tyrion as the Acting Hand in "What is Dead May Never Die." Tyrion talking to Pycelle in "What is Dead May Never Die." Entertainment Weekly photo of Peter Dinklage in costume as Tyrion Lannister. Ser Meryn Trant refuses Tyrion's orders in "The Old Gods and the New" Tyrion slaps Joffrey in "The Old Gods and the New" Tyrion thanks Sandor Clegane in "The Old Gods and the New" Tyrion sees the rows of wildfire. TV Guide photo shoot, Season 3. Tyrion in a Season 3 promo Promotional image of Tyrion in "Walk of Punishment" Promotional image of Tyrion in "Second Sons" Promotional image of Tyrion with Tywin Lannister in "Second Sons" Tyrion and Sansa with Tywin, Cersei, Joffrey, Lord Varys, Grand Maester Pycelle, Margaery, Lady Olenna, and Loras in "Second Sons". Tyrion and Sansa at their wedding in "Second Sons". Tyrion in "Second Sons" Tyrion and Shae in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair (episode) Tyrion, Sansa, and Shae in "Mhysa". Tywin and Tyrion in "Mhysa". Promotional image for Tyrion in Season 4. Tyrion in "Two Swords". Joffrey pours wine on Tyrion's head in "The Lion and the Rose". Tyrion and Varys at his trial in "The Laws of God and Men". Tyrion, having just killed Shae in "The Children". Tyrion finds Tywin on the privey after looking for him in "The Children". Tyrion aiming a crossbow at Tywin before killing him in "The Children". Tyrion coming out of the crate during Season 5. EW cover promoting Season 5. EW promotional image for Season 5. EW Promotional image for Season 5. Tyrion in "Kill the Boy" Tyrion as he appears in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series. Family tree &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tytos Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; Jeyne Lannister 
née Marbrand 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tywin Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; Joanna Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Kevan Lannister &nbsp; Dorna Lannister 
née Swyft &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Robert Baratheon 
Deceased &nbsp; Cersei Lannister &nbsp; Jaime Lannister &nbsp; Tysha &nbsp; Tyrion Lannister &nbsp; Sansa Stark &nbsp; Lancel Lannister &nbsp; Martyn Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; Willem Lannister 
Deceased &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Unnamed son 
Died in infancy &nbsp; 

Joffrey Baratheon 
 Deceased &nbsp; Margaery Tyrell &nbsp; 

Myrcella Baratheon 
 Deceased &nbsp; Trystane Martell &nbsp; Tommen Baratheon &nbsp; Margaery Tyrell &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Quotes Spoken by Tyrion Tyrion Lannister: "Let me give you some advice, bastard. Never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. Wear it like armor, and it can never be used to hurt you." Jon Snow: "What the hell do you know about being a bastard?" Tyrion Lannister: "All dwarfs are bastards in their fathers' eyes." — Tyrion and Jon Snow.[src] Cersei Lannister: "I still can't believe you're going. It's ridiculous, even for you." Tyrion Lannister: "Where's your sense of wonder? The greatest structure ever built. The intrepid men of the Night's Watch. The wintry abode of White Walkers." — Tyrion and Cersei.[src] Jaime Lannister: "Tell me you're not thinking of taking the black." Tyrion Lannister: "And go celibate? The whores would be begging from Dorne to Casterly Rock. No, I just want to stand on top of the Wall and piss off the edge of the world." — Tyrion and Jaime.[src] Jaime Lannister: "Even if the boy lives, he'd be a cripple. Grotesque. Give me a good, clean death anyway." Tyrion Lannister: "Speaking for the grotesques, I'd have to disagree. Death is so final , whereas life, ah, life is full of possibilities. I hope the boy does wake. I'd be very interested to hear what he has to say." Jaime Lannister: "My dear brother, at times you make me wonder whose side you're on." Tyrion Lannister: "My dear brother, you wound me. You know how much I love my family." — Tyrion and Jaime discuss Bran Stark.[src] "Everything's better with some wine in the belly." ―Tyrion[src] "Yes. Until my brother killed him. Life is full of these little ironies. My sister married the new king, and my repulsive nephew will be king after him. I must do my part for the honor of my house; wouldn't you agree? But how? Well, my brother has his sword, and I have my mind. And a mind needs books like a sword needs a whetstone. That's why I read so much, Jon Snow." ―Tyrion to Jon Snow[src] "When I was ten, I stuffed my uncle's boots with goat shit. When confronted with my crime, I blamed a squire. Poor boy was flogged, and I escaped justice. When I was twelve I milked my eel into a pot of turtle stew. I flogged the one-eyed snake, I skinned my sausage. I made the bald man cry into the turtle stew, which I do believe my sister ate. At least I hope she did. I once brought a jackass and a honeycomb into a brothel..." ―Tyrion[src] Tyrion Lannister: "I am Tyrion, son of Tywin of Clan Lannister." Shagga: "How would you like to die, Tyrion, son of Tywin?" Tyrion Lannister: "In my own bed, at the age of 80 with a belly full of wine and a girl's mouth around my cock." — Tyrion uses his sense of humor to defuse another tense situation.[src] "You might find it difficult to rule over millions who want you dead." ―Tyrion to Cersei Lannister[src] "I am not Ned Stark. I understand the way this game is played. Threaten me again, and I will have you thrown into the sea." ―Tyrion to Varys[src] "The King is a lost cause, it's the rest of us I'm worried about now." ―Tyrion on Joffrey[src] Tyrion Lannister: "I will hurt you for this. A day will come when you think you are safe and happy and your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth, and you will know the debt is paid." Cersei Lannister: "Get out." — Tyrion and Cersei[src] "I would kill for you. Do you know that? I expect I'll have to before this is over. You're mine." ―Tyrion to Shae[src] "I chopped wood once. No, I watched my brother chopping wood." ―Tyrion to Bronn[src] Cersei Lannister: "You're a clever man. But you're not half as clever as you think you are." Tyrion Lannister: "Still makes me more clever than you." — Tyrion and Cersei[src] "It's hard to say which of the four of us is getting the worst of the arrangement. Probably Sansa. Though Loras will certainly come to know a deep and singular misery." ―Tyrion[src] "I am the god of tits and wine." ―Drunk Tyrion to his father[src] "Then you'll be fucking your own bride with a wooden cock!" ―Tyrion to King Joffrey[src] Tyrion Lannister: "She is no longer yours to torment!" Joffrey Baratheon: "Everyone is mine to torment! You'd do well to remember that, you little monster!" Tyrion Lannister: "Oh, I'm a monster? Perhaps you should speak to me more softly, then. Monsters are dangerous and just now kings are dying like flies." — Tyrion spars with Joffrey.[src] Tyrion Lannister: "Do you think she'll open her legs for me when I tell her how we murdered her mother and brother?!" Tywin Lannister: "One way or another you will get that girl pregnant." Tyrion Lannister: "I will NOT rape her!" — Tyrion spars with Tywin.[src] Sansa Stark: "I lie awake all night, staring at the canopy, thinking of how they died." Tyrion Lannister: "I could get essence of nightshade to help you sleep." Sansa Stark: "Do you know what they did to my brother? How they sewed his direwolf's head onto his body? And my mother? They say they cut her throat to the bone and threw her body in the river." Tyrion Lannister: "What happened to your family was a terrible crime. I didn't know your brother; he seemed like a good man but I didn't know him. Your mother, on the other hand, I admired her. She wanted to have me executed but I admired her. She was a strong woman, and she was fierce when it came to protecting her children. Sansa, your mother would want you to carry on. You know it's true." — Tyrion tries to comfort Sansa after the deaths of her mother and brother.[src] "I saved you. I saved this city... and all your worthless lives! I should have let Stannis kill you all!" ―Tyrion lashes out at the populace in King's Landing for turning on him after all he did for them.[src] Tyrion Lannister: "I did not do it. I did not kill Joffrey, but I wish that I had! Watching your vicious bastard die gave me more relief than a thousand lying whores! I wish I was the monster you think I am! I wish I had enough poison for the whole pack of you! I would gladly give my life to watch you all swallow it!" Tywin Lannister: "Ser Meryn! Ser Meryn, escort the prisoner back to his cell!" Tyrion Lannister: "I will NOT give my life for Joffrey's murder, and I know I'll get no justice here, so I will let the gods decide my fate! I demand a trial by combat." — Tyrion at his trial.[src] Jaime Lannister: "I made a deal for you to keep your ungrateful head on your ungrateful neck a little while longer." Tyrion Lannister: "I'm sorry, what am I grateful for? The opportunity to live and die at the Wall as punishment for a crime I did not commit?" Jaime Lannister: "You threw your life away! You threw it away! It's not a joke. You understand that, don't you?" Tyrion Lannister: "Of course it's a joke! Just not a very funny one." — Tyrion defends his actions at the trial.[src] Tyrion Lannister: "That deal you made, it was everything father wanted. You do see that? He gets you back as his heir. The future Lord of the Rock. And he ships me off to Castle Black, out of sight at last. All so perfect. It felt good to take that from him. He knows I'm innocent and he's willing to sacrifice me anyway." Jaime Lannister: "He's willing to sacrifice any of us." Tyrion Lannister: "Not you! You're the golden son! You could kill a king, lose a hand, fuck your own sister, you'll always be the golden son!" Jaime Lannister: "Careful! I'm the last friend you've got." — Tyrion to Jaime[src] Tyrion Lannister: "What's the punishment for regicide? Drawing and quartering? Hanging? Breaking at the wheel?" Jaime Lannister: "Beheading." Tyrion Lannister: "Seems rather ordinary. And he was my nephew as well, so what's that? Fratricide is brothers, filicide is sons. Nepoticide! That's the one. Matricide, patricide, infanticide, suicide. There's no kind of killing that doesn't have its own word." Jaime Lannister: "Cousins." Tyrion Lannister: "Cousins? You're right. There is no word for cousin-killing! Well done." — Tyrion and Jaime before his second trial by combat[src] Tywin Lannister: "You shot me! You're no son of mine!" Tyrion Lannister: "I am your son. I have always been your son." — Tyrion kills Tywin[src] "The future is shit, just like the past." ―Tyrion to Varys[src] Daenerys Targaryen: "If you are Tyrion Lannister, why shouldn't I kill you to pay your family back, for what it did to mine?" Tyrion Lannister: "You want revenge against the Lannisters? I killed my mother, Joanna Lannister, on the day I was born! I killed my father, Tywin Lannister, with a bolt to the heart! I am the greatest Lannister killer of our time!" Daenerys Targaryen: "So I should welcome you into my service because you murdered members of your own family?" Tyrion Lannister: "Into your service? Your Grace, we have only just met. It's too soon to know if you deserve my service." — Tyrion speaks with Daenerys Targaryen[src] Daario Naharis: "So mainly, you talk." Tyrion Lannister: "And drink...I've survived so far!" — Tyrion and Daario Naharis on Tyrion's physical limitations.[src] Spoken about Tyrion "The whole way from Dorne all anyone talked about was the monster that had been born to Tywin Lannister. A head twice the size of his body, a tail between his legs, claws, one red eye, the privates of both a girl and a boy. When we met your sister, she promised she would show you to us. Every day we would ask. Every day she would say, "Soon." Then she and your brother took us to your nursery and… she unveiled the freak. Your head was a bit large. Your arms and legs were a bit small, but no claw. No red eye. No tail between your legs. Just a tiny pink cock. We didn't try to hide our disappointment. "That’s not a monster," I told Cersei "That’s just a baby." ―Oberyn Martell[src] In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Tyrion is in his mid-twenties when the events of the series begin, whereas in the show his age is not mentioned. However, the age gap between him and his siblings is smaller: in the books Tyrion was born when Cersei was 10 while in the show she was 4. 

As well as being a dwarf, Tyrion is misshapen and often described as ugly and having eyes of two different colors, one green and one black. He is described as having a huge disproportionate head and an pronounced ungainly waddle when he walks. His hair is lank and very pale, but when he lets his beard grow in it comes in as a mixture of blonde and black hairs. In the TV series, actor Peter Dinklage insisted on not having a beard, because he felt that bearded dwarves are a fantasy stereotype. 

Tysha was reported to be the daughter of a crofter rather than a wheelwright and the marriage took place when he was only 13 years old. He bought them a little cottage where they lived as man and wife for their two week marriage, before his father had it annulled. Tywin not only had 50 guards rape her, but then ordered Tyrion to have sex with her as well, giving her a gold piece as a Lannister is worth more. 

At the Battle of the Green Fork, Tyrion is not knocked out by his own men. In fact he leads with distinction, holding the line under great adversity. Later when he tells his father that the plan to kill him by putting him in the vanguard (under the command of Ser Gregor Clegane) failed, Tyrion learns that his father had put him there hoping that an inexperienced Tyrion with undisciplined hill tribesmen would break and run to be pursued into a trap by the Stark forces. Tyrion holding the line had ruined the plan. It is a combination of this along with his reading of the situation they face in the war, and the fact that Jaime Lannister may not be retrievable, that makes Tywin decide to make use of Tyrion as acting Hand. Tyrion realizes that Tywin is preparing for the worst, that the Starks might well kill Jaime as revenge for Eddard's murder, so he is finally giving Tyrion real power. 

When Tyrion relieves Janos Slynt of command of the Gold cloaks it is a man named Ser Jacelyn Bywater or "Ironhand" who becomes their new commander, not Bronn. It is Varys, not Tyrion, who comes up with the suggestion to send Joffrey some prostitutes to soften his temper, but the results are not shown. Tyrion does not send Petyr Baelish to Catelyn Stark at Renly's camp with Lord Eddard's bones and an offer for the release of Jaime Lannister (though Baelish is sent to treat with the Tyrells after Renly's death). The bones are sent with Cleos Frey (replaced by Alton Lannister in the series) to Riverrun along with unacceptable peace terms and a force of 100 Lannister soldiers that hide four men Tyrion has sent to break Ser Jaime out, an escape attempt that fails. Shae is not brought to the Tower of the Hand, instead she is put in a manse that Tyrion can approach by using a tunnel from under a brothel. The most important of the defenses for the city that Tyrion builds is a huge chain that stretches across the whole of Blackwater Rush, to be raised after Stannis' fleet enters to trap them inside with the wildfire. 

In the book's version of the Battle of Blackwater, Tyrion has almost his entire nose cut off by Ser Mandon Moore's sword swipe; the TV series only included the deep scar across his face (which as also present in the books). As Peter Dinklage explained, "I know, for fans of the books, that Tyrion loses his nose in the battle. But it would be next to impossible and very expensive to do that on television, and I would be wearing a green sock [on my nose, to digitally remove it with greenscreen], I think, for the next however many years, which I don't know how that would be on set. But yeah, the digital artist would have a lot of work on their hands. So I think we came up with a really good solution." 

In the official blooper reel for Season 4, when "action" is shouted and a stage hand closes the clapperboard right in front of Dinklage's face, he started jokingly pretending that board was held too close and cut his nose off. 

When Joffrey is poisoned, Cersei is quick to blame Tyrion and have him put on a farcical show trial, which leads him to demand a trial by combat. As this occurs around the same time Jaime returns to the capital, Tyrion confers with his uncle Kevan while in custody, and it is Kevan who persuades Tywin to spare Tyrion and send him to the Night's Watch. When Oberyn Martell is killed and Tyrion is sentenced to death, he is freed by Jaime, who goes on to reveal that his marriage to Tysha was actually a proper marriage and he had been forced by Tywin to make it look like it had been staged. Enraged at such a betrayal, Tyrion vows revenge on Jaime, Cersei and Tywin, spitefully but falsely telling Jaime that he killed Joffrey, and it is for this reason that he confronts and kills Shae and then Tywin while he is on the privy (in the television series, he kills Tywin for Shae, which left fans confused as to why Tyrion would kill his own father for a woman who committed the ultimate betrayal against him and who he himself had just killed). Tyrion then flees Westeros with help from Varys, who stays in King's Landing but arranges for Illyrio Mopatis to shelter him in Pentos. While in Illyrio's mansion, Tyrion is persuaded by Illyrio to travel to Meereen with some companions to aid Daenerys Targaryen in reclaiming the Iron Throne, and in the process to take his revenge on both Cersei and Jaime (though he expresses a desire to rape and kill Cersei, he begins to have second thoughts about Jaime midway through the book, slowly accepting that Jaime was forced by Tywin to do what he did). On the way, he is captured by Jorah Mormont while in a brothel, who intends to take him to Daenerys, and they also meet Penny, a dwarf woman who was at Joffrey's wedding and whose brother has recently been killed by dwarf hunters seeking Tyrion (for which she initially blames Tyrion). They are captured by slave traders and sold to Yezzan zo Qaggaz in his tent in the siege camp outside Meereen. In the books, Tyrion has not yet met Daenerys personally, but sees her from afar while performing in Daznak's Pit. Though the slave masters intend to unleash a pack of lions into the pit, Daenerys puts a stop to the act, unknowingly saving Tyrion's life. With a plague decimating the siege, Tyrion escapes with Jorah and Penny and they meet up with the Second Sons, who have recently betrayed Daenerys to side with the army of Astapor and Yunkai. Tyrion joins the sellsword company and persuades them to change their allegiance back to Daenerys in exchange for the wealth of Casterly Rock, his birthright since Jaime has renounced it. He is not present when Daenerys flees from Meereen with Drogon. 

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Tyrion Lannister" is pronounced "TEER-ee-un LAN-iss-ter". See also Tyrion Lannister on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) References ↑ Tyrion is stated to be four years younger than Cersei and Jaime in the TV series. ↑ 2.0 2.1 HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Baratheon of King's Landing - Tyrion Lannister entry ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 "The Kingsroad" ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 "Baelor" ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 "The Prince of Winterfell" ↑ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Baratheon of King's Landing - Cersei Baratheon entry ↑ 7.0 7.1 "Winter is Coming" ↑ 8.0 8.1 "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "Lord Snow" ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "A Golden Crown" ↑ "The Pointy End" ↑ "Fire and Blood" ↑ "The North Remembers" ↑ "The Night Lands" ↑ "What is Dead May Never Die" ↑ 17.0 17.1 "Garden of Bones" ↑ "The Ghost of Harrenhal" ↑ 19.0 19.1 "The Old Gods and the New" ↑ "A Man Without Honor" ↑ "Blackwater" ↑ "Valar Morghulis" ↑ 23.0 23.1 23.2 "Two Swords" ↑ "Dark Wings, Dark Words" ↑ "Walk of Punishment" ↑ "And Now His Watch is Ended" ↑ "Kissed by Fire" ↑ "The Climb" ↑ "Second Sons" ↑ 30.0 30.1 "Mhysa" ↑ 31.0 31.1 31.2 "The Lion and the Rose" ↑ "Breaker of Chains" ↑ "Oathkeeper" ↑ 34.0 34.1 "The Laws of Gods and Men" ↑ "Mockingbird" ↑ "The Mountain and the Viper" ↑ "The Children" ↑ "The Wars to Come" ↑ "The House of Black and White" ↑ "High Sparrow (episode)" ↑ "Sons of the Harpy (episode)" ↑ "Kill the Boy" ↑ "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" ↑ "The Gift (episode)" ↑ "Hardhome (episode)" ↑ "The Dance of Dragons" ↑ "Mother's Mercy" ↑ Peter Dinklage Season 3 premiere Red Carpet interview ↑ Season 4 bloopers from SDCC, about 17 seconds into the clip. v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Small Council Hand of the King Current: 

Vacant Former: 

Lord Jon Arryn · Lord Eddard Stark · Tyrion Lannister · Lord Tywin Lannister Lord Commander of the Kingsguard Current: 

Ser Jaime Lannister Former: 

Ser Barristan Selmy Grand Maester 

Pycelle Master of Coin Current: 

Lord Mace Tyrell Former: 

Lord Petyr Baelish · Tyrion Lannister Master of Whisperers Current: 

Qyburn Former: 

Varys Master of Laws Current: 

Vacant Former: 

Lord Renly Baratheon Master of Ships Current: 

Lord Mace Tyrell Former: 

Lord Stannis Baratheon Other members Current: 

Vacant Former: 

Lord Janos Slynt · Prince Oberyn Martell · "Master of War" 

 
 v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Targaryen Lord: Queen Daenerys Targaryen Heir: None Seat: (Exiled) Lands: Exiled, currently holds Meereen in Slaver's Bay Title(s): Queen of Meereen · Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea · Queen of Qarth· Queen of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men (claimant) · Lady Regnant of the Seven Kingdoms (claimant) · Protector of the Realm (claimant) Ancestors: Aegon I, the Conqueror · Visenya · Rhaenys · Aenys I · Maegor I, the Cruel · Jaehaerys, the Concilliator · Viserys I · Daemon · Rhaenyra · Aegon II · Aemond · Aegon III · Daeron I, the Young Dragon · Baelor the Blessed · Viserys II · Aegon IV, the Unworthy · Naerys · Aemon the Dragonknight · Daena the Defiant · Rhaena · Elaena · Daeron II, the Good · Daenerys Martell · Myriah Martell · Daemon Blackfyre · Brynden Rivers · Aegor Rivers · Shiera Seastar · Baelor Breakspear · Aerys I · Aelinor · Rhaegel · Maekar I · Aerion Brightflame · Aegon V, the Unlikely · Duncan the Small · Daeron Deceased members: Aerys II, the Mad · Rhaella Targaryen · Rhaegar Targaryen · Elia Martell · Rhaenys Targaryen · Aegon Targaryen · Viserys Targaryen · Drogo · Rhaego · Aemon Targaryen Household: Ser Jorah Mormont · Tyrion Lannister · {Ser Barristan Selmy} · {Rakharo} · Kovarro · Aggo · {Irri} · {Doreah} · Jhiqui · Malakho · Missandei · Grey Worm · Daario Naharis · {Mossador} · Malcolm Branfield · Croft v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Lannister Lord: Queen Regent Cersei Lannister Heir: (disputed) Seat: Casterly Rock Lands: The Westerlands Title(s): Lord Paramount of the Westerlands · Lord of Casterly Rock · Warden of the West · King of the Rock (pre-War of Conquest) Ancestors: Lann the Clever · Tommen II Lannister · Loren Lannister · Damon Lannister Current members: Kevan Lannister · Tyrion Lannister · Jaime Lannister · Dorna Lannister · Lancel Lannister · Cynda Lannister · Lyman Lannister Deceased members: Tytos Lannister · Joanna Lannister · Stafford Lannister · Alton Lannister · Martyn Lannister · Willem Lannister · Orson Lannister · Tywin Lannister Household: Podrick Payne · Bronn · Gregor Clegane · {Amory Lorch} · {Polliver} · {Rorge} · {Biter} Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing 

 Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Tyrion_Lannister?oldid=233116"