Unella Season(s) 5, 6 First seen "The Gift" Appeared in 3 episodes (see below) Status Alive Allegiance The Faith of the Seven 
 Most Devout Portrayed by Hannah Waddingham "Confess." ―Septa Unella to Cersei Lannister[src] 

Unella is a recurring character in the fifth and sixth seasons. She is played by Hannah Waddingham. Contents[show] Biography 

Unella is a Septa of the Faith of the Seven and a devoted follower of the High Sparrow.&nbsp; Season 5 

Septa Unella pushes Cersei into her cell 

Unella grabs Cersei Lannister when she is arrested by the High Sparrow and throws her into a cell underneath the Great Sept of Baelor with the aid of Moelle and Scolera. 

Unella routinely visits Cersei in her cell and offers her a ladle of water on the condition that she confess. Cersei, prideful and infuriated, refuses Unella's advances, repeating to the septa that her face will be the last one she sees before she dies. 

Eventually, however, Cersei gives in and confesses her adultery with her cousin Lancel. The High Sparrow allows Cersei to return to the Red Keep in order to be with her son King Tommen, but first she must perform a walk of atonement. Unella is present when Cersei is stripped naked and washed by two other septas before her hair is roughly cut short. She later accompanies Cersei as she is forced to walk naked from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep with a handful of Faith Militant members to keep away the leering and jeering crowds who have gathered to see her shame and take the chance to insult a Queen. As she walks, Septa Unella accompanies her crying out "Shame!" repeatedly while ringing a bell to attract the attention of the population. Appearances Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Septa Unella is described as big boned with callused hands and a scowling homely face. She is a member of the Most Devout, a council of septons and septas that rule the Faith of the Seven under the leadership of the High Septon (the High Septon is essentially analogous to the Pope in the real-life Catholic Church, and the Most Devout are analogous to the College of Cardinals.) See also Unella on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) References ↑ "Watchers on the Wall" ↑ "The Gift" ↑ "The Gift" ↑ "Mother's Mercy" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Unella?oldid=230323"