Unidentified Warlock Season(s) 3 Appeared in "Valar Dohaeris" Status Alive Origin Qarth Allegiance Warlocks Portrayed by Lottie Steer 

An "Unidentified Warlock" is an assassin played by Lottie Steer first seen in "Valar Dohaeris". Like her cohorts, she displays the blue-stained lips of those who drink Shade of the evening. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 3Edit 

This unidentified warlock appears as a young girl and entices Daenerys to play while in Astapor. The ball she rolls to Dany actually contains a manticore. Before the manticore can strike, Ser Barristan Selmy stabs it in the back with a dagger and kills the creature. The assassin runs and jumps off the dock - only to then magically appear in the distance. The warlock escapes uninjured. AppearancesEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Daenerys is the target of an assassination attempt before abandoning Qarth, and is saved by Barristan Selmy, though he is under the assumed identity of "Arstan Whitebeard" at the time. In the books, this occurred on the docks of Qarth as she was leaving, but the TV series moved it forward slightly to occur in Astapor, soon after Dany arrives from Qarth. In the books, the would-be assassin is not a Warlock but a Sorrowful Man, an ancient guild of assassins in Qarth known for whispering "I am so sorry" to their victims before killing them. It is not known who orders the attempt on Dany's life, as several Qartheen factions have called for her death by this time in the narrative, though the Warlocks have a special interest in Daenerys' death after her dragons kill their leaders, the Undying Ones, when she tries to leave from the House of the Undying. See alsoEdit Sorrowful Men on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Valar Dohaeris" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Unidentified_Warlock?oldid=209941"