Handmaiden Season(s) 2, 3, 4 First seen "A Man Without Honor" Last seen "Two Swords" Appeared in 4 episodes (see below) Status Active Allegiance House Baratheon of King's Landing Portrayed by Sara Dylan "Forgive me, Your Grace. You told me to come at once if there was anything important." ―The handmaiden to Cersei Lannister[src] 

A handmaiden is an unnamed recurring character in the second, third and fourth seasons. She is played by guest star Sara Dylan and she first appears in "A Man Without Honor." Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit Season 2Edit 

Shae holds a knife to the throat of the handmaid in "A Man Without Honor". 

She is a handmaiden to Sansa Stark. She finds Sansa and Shae trying to turn over her mattress to conceal Sansa's first flowering. She attempts to inform Queen Cersei but Shae threatens her with a knife to keep quiet. Nevertheless, the Queen is informed by Sandor Clegane. Season 3Edit 

The handmaiden continues to be assigned to Sansa. She announces Tyrion Lannister when he calls on Sansa to "propose" to her. Season 4Edit 

The handmaiden continues to spy on Tyrion for Cersei, and discovers that his real secret lover is actually Shae. She then enters Cersei's chambers, while Jaime is present, to inform her of something "important". AppearanceEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Season Four appearances Two Swords The Lion and the Rose Breaker of Chains Oathkeeper First of His Name The Laws of Gods and Men Mockingbird The Mountain and the Viper The Watchers on the Wall The Children In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, both Sansa and Tyrion are aware that all of Sansa's maids are spies of Cersei. Thus Sansa is careful not to reveal her true feelings to any of them, and Tyrion takes precautions when he meets Shae. 

When Tyrion hears servants joke about him that he still has not had sex with Sansa, he figures that Sansa's maids are the ones who spread the gossip. 

Tyrion complains to his father "Why is it that all of Sansa's maids are women in Cersei's service? I am sick of being spied upon in my own chambers." Tywin answers nonchalantly that if Tyrion doesn't like his wife's servants, he can dismiss them and hire new ones. ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Man Without Honor" ↑ "The Climb" ↑ "Two Swords" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Unidentified_handmaiden?oldid=209512"