Vardis Egen Season(s) 1 First seen "The Wolf and the Lion" Last seen "A Golden Crown" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Ser 
Captain of the Guards Status Deceased Death Killed by Bronn in a duel 
"A Golden Crown" Allegiance House Arryn 
House Egen Portrayed by Brendan McCormack "My Lady, I would gladly fight the Imp's champion for you." ―Vardis Egen[src] 

Ser Vardis Egen is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by Brendan McCormack and debuts in "The Wolf and the Lion".&nbsp;Ser Vardis Egen is the captain of the guards at the Eyrie. In the trial by combat, he is the champion for Lysa Arryn&nbsp;and is killed by Bronn, who fights for Tyrion. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Vardis Egen was captain of Jon Arryn's personal guard in King's Landing and then became captain of the guards in the Eyrie&nbsp;for Robin Arryn and his mother, Lysa Arryn. He is a knight of some reputation, but is no longer a young man. Season 1Edit 

Vardis leads the group of knights who meet Catelyn Stark and her prisoner Tyrion Lannister&nbsp;before she enters the Eyrie. Lysa orders Tyrion imprisoned in the sky cells. After having spent quite some time in a sky cell,&nbsp;Tyrion&nbsp;finally claims that he wants to confess his crimes and then demands a trial by combat. Though many men, including Lord Eon Hunter and a Knight of House Lynderly, offer to fight as Lysa's champion, she asks Ser Vardis to represent House Arryn. At first he says that fighting Tyrion would be unfair, but Vardis accepts when Tyrion asks that he be represented by a champion. The sellsword Bronn offers to be Tyrion's champion. Vardis fights dressed in full metal armor and carrying a large and heavy wooden shield. His speed and dexterity were easily outmatched by Bronn, who wore only a leather armored shirt. During the course of the fight, Bronn throws things into Ser Vardis' path and even trips him, while quickly dodging and weaving to avoid Vardis' attacks. Ultimately Bronn tires out the more heavily armored knight, severely injuring him with a quick slash and disarming him. 

Vardis falls from the Moon Door. 

Bronn waits for Lysa Arryn to call for mercy, but she does not respond, so he stabs Vardis in the neck and pushes him through the "Moon Door" in the center of the throne room, sending him down a thousand-foot drop. Lysa snaps angrily to Bronn that he didn't fight with honor. The sellsword agrees, before pointing to the Moon Door and noting that Ser Vardis did. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Vardis Egen is an extremely loyal servant and retainer of House Arryn. He had been the captain of the guard when Jon Arryn was Hand of the King. He is described as heavy, square, plain-faced, silver-haired, and having no humor. In the battle with Bronn, Vardis is not only quite a bit older and slower than Bronn, but Lysa has given him Jon Arryn's great sword to defend the honor of the House, which is a heavier and unfamiliar blade. 

In the book, Bronn kills Vardis without pushing him out of the Moon Door (which is set in the wall, not in the floor). Image galleryEdit Ser Vardis leads a column of Knights flying the banner of House Arryn through the Vale. Promotional image from "The Wolf and the Lion". Ser Vardis and Catelyn Stark present Tyrion Lannister at the Eyrie. Promotional image from "The Wolf and the Lion". Ser Vardis prepares to duel Bronn. 
Add a photo to this gallery See alsoEdit Ser Vardis Egen at A Wiki of Ice and Fire. ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" ↑ "A Golden Crown" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Arryn Lord: Robin Arryn Heir: Seat: The Eyrie Lands: The Vale of Arryn Title(s): Lord of the Eyrie · Lord Paramount of the Vale · Warden of the East Ancestors: Artys Arryn · Sharra Arryn · Ronnel Arryn Deceased members: Jasper Arryn · Jon Arryn · Alys Arryn · Ronnel Arryn · Lysa Arryn Household: {Ser Vardis Egen} · {Ser Hugh of the Vale} · Mord · Petyr Baelish Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Vardis_Egen?oldid=227899"