Violet Season(s) 3 Appeared in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" Status Dead Allegiance House Bolton Portrayed by Stephanie Blacker Theon: "Where is he?" Myranda: "Who, my lord? There's no one here but you, me, and Violet." — Theon Greyjoy and Myranda[src] 

Violet is a character in the third season. She is played by Stephanie Blacker. Contents[show] Biography 

Violet is a servant of House Bolton of the Dreadfort. Season 3 

Violet and Myranda enter the torture cellar in which Theon Greyjoy is kept hostage, release the former Prince of Winterfell and put him on a bed. Then they attempt to seduce him, claiming they have heard the heir to Pyke is "well endowed". Violet claims Myranda was in training to become a septa but her sexual urges kept her from taking the vows. Theon is initially distrustful but cannot help but grow aroused when Myranda, stripped of her clothes by Violet, straddles him. 

Suddenly, the girls are interrupted by a horn sounded by Ramsay Snow, who approaches his two servants and taunts Theon, telling him he too has heard about Theon's manhood and showing him a gelding knife. Myranda and Violet then watch as Theon is held by two men while Ramsay proceeds to castrate him. Season 5 

While bathing Sansa Stark, Myranda reveals Ramsay grew tired of Violet and ended up killing her after she became pregnant. Appearances Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa Behind the Scenes 

George R.R. Martin stated on the DVD commentary of "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" that he had written a scene involving Myranda and Violet for the fourth season. Stephanie Blacker was not available for the fourth season due to the fact that she was pregnant. Since Martin wrote "The Lion and the Rose", this seems to suggest that the role played by Tansy in the episode was originally intended for Violet. Violet's in-universe fate might be a reference to Blacker's real-life reason for not returning. In the books 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the only character named Violet is an old peasant women who used to visit Riverrun, looking for old shoes in need of new soles. She does not appear in the books, being only mentioned by Catelyn Stark and Maester Vyman. 

In the novels, Ramsay surrounds himself with a group of favorites, referred to as the "Bastard's Boys", who take part in his mind games and tortures. However, there is no mention of any women in the group. References ↑ January 10, 2013.  Winter is Coming.net ↑ "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" ↑ "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Bolton Lord: Lord Roose Bolton Heir: Ramsay Bolton Seat: Winterfell 
The Dreadfort Lands: The North Title(s): Red King (former) · Lord of the Dreadfort · Warden of the North · Lord Paramount of the North · Lord of Winterfell Ancestors: Rogar Bolton Current members: Walda Bolton · Sansa Stark Deceased members: Domeric Bolton Household: {Locke} · Steelshanks · {Myranda} · {Tansy} · {Violet} · {Master Torturer} · Maester Wolkan Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e Characters significantly changed between books and TV series Season 1: 

Old Nan · Osha · Littlefinger · Shae · Mago · Marillion Season2 Robb's storyline 

Talisa Maegyr · Catelyn Stark · Robb Stark Daenerys's storyline 

Irri · Doreah · Rakharo · Pyat Pree · Xaro Xhoan Daxos · The Thirteen Season 3: 

Gendry · Locke · Rast · Martyn Lannister Show-exclusive new characters: 

Alton Lannister · Reginald Lannister · Copper King · Silk King · Spice King · Malakho · Myranda · Violet Prostitutes 

Ros · Armeca · Daisy · Marei · Kayla · Genna · Mirelle · Olyvar Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Violet?oldid=217990"