Wallen Season(s) 1 Appeared in "A Golden Crown" Status Deceased Death Throat sliced open by Robb Stark 
"A Golden Crown" Allegiance The Free Folk 
Night's Watch (deserted) Portrayed by Barry O'Connor "Cut his little cock off and stuff it in his mouth." ―Wallen to Stiv[src] 

Wallen is a minor character in the first season. He is played by Barry O'Connor and only appears in "A Golden Crown." Wallen is a wildling, and apparently a deserter from the Night's Watch. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Wallen is a former member of the Night's Watch, who abandoned the Wall to live amongst the wildlings. Season 1Edit 

Stiv, Osha and Wallen flee south of the Wall, apparently in fear of the return of the White Walkers. In the woods near Winterfell they stumble across Bran Stark and decide to steal his horse. Realizing his importance, they ponder taking him prisoner and returning him to Mance Rayder, the king-beyond-the-wall, for a reward, but decide against it. Robb Stark intervenes and kills Wallen and disables Osha. Stiv is killed by Theon Greyjoy. AppearanceEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Wallen is a member of a band of wildlings who manage to evade the Watch to seek succor in the lands to the south. He is an associate of Osha and Stiv. See alsoEdit Wallen on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ He is credited as "Night's Watchman" ↑ "A Golden Crown" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Wallen?oldid=224542"