For similar articles see Lannister soldier. Weasel Season(s) 2 Appeared in "Garden of Bones" Status Alive Allegiance House Lannister 
House Clegane Portrayed by Paul Kealyn 

Weasel is a minor character in the second season. He is played by Paul Kealyn and debuts in "Garden of Bones." Weasel is a servant of Ser Gregor Clegane. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Weasel is a servant of Ser Gregor Clegane. Season 2Edit 

Weasel aids the Tickler in the interrogation and torture of prisoners. While the Tickler asks questions, Weasel straps the victim, and then places a wooden bucket with a rat inside over the victim's bare chest. At the Tickler's command, Weasel begins to heat the bucket with a torch to make the rat claw its way out through the victim's chest. AppearancesEdit Season Two appearances The North Remembers The Night Lands What is Dead May Never Die Garden of Bones The Ghost of Harrenhal The Old Gods and the New A Man Without Honor The Prince of Winterfell Blackwater Valar Morghulis In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Weese is the understeward of the Wailing Tower in Harrenhal and a servant of House Whent that later submits to House Lannister. He is a cruel and abusive man, resorting to violence at the slightest provocation, even just for staring at him. He treats Arya and other servants very brutally. He, not Amory Lorch, is the second man whom Arya tells Jaqen H'ghar to kill, because he was mean to her. 

"Weasel" is a different character, a little girl about two years old whose real name is unknown. She and a woman whose right hand was cut off, perhaps her mother, were found by Yoren on the march north from King's Landing. The one-armed woman died shortly afterwards, leaving the girl in the custody of the caravan. When the Mountain and his men caught Arya, Gendry, Hot Pie, and Lommy Greenhands, Weasel managed to escape, and has not been seen since then. Arya takes her name as an alias while at the castle. For the TV series, the young girl Weasel has been removed and the name given to Weese. See alsoEdit Weese on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) Weasel on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "Garden of Bones" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Clegane Lord: Ser Gregor Clegane Heir: Sandor Clegane Seat: Clegane's Keep Lands: Westerlands Title(s): None Deceased members: Clegane Household: Joss Stilwood · {The Tickler} · Weasel Overlord: House Lannister Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Weasel?oldid=227829"