Wendel Manderly Season(s) 3 Appeared in "The Rains of Castamere" Titles Ser Status Deceased Death Killed at the Red Wedding 
"The Rains of Castamere" Origin White Harbor Allegiance House Stark 
House Manderly Culture Andal Religion Faith of the Seven Portrayed by Oddie Braddell 

Wendel Manderly is a character who appears in the third season episode "The Rains of Castamere". He is played by Oddie Braddell. Ser Wendel Manderly is a knight and a member of House Manderly of White Harbor, loyal vassals of House Stark. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 3Edit 

Ser Wendel is part of the retinue that accompanies King Robb Stark to the Twins for the wedding of Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey. During the wedding feast, Ser Wendel sits besides Ser Brynden Tully and Black Walder Frey. Following the bedding of the newlyweds, Wendel is murdered along with his King and the rest of the Stark bannermen. AppearanceEdit Season Three appearances Valar Dohaeris Dark Wings, Dark Words Walk of Punishment And Now His Watch is Ended Kissed by Fire The Climb The Bear and the Maiden Fair Second Sons The Rains of Castamere Mhysa In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Wendel Manderly is the second son of Lord Wyman Manderly, the Lord of White Harbor and Warden of the White Knife. He is not quite as fat as his father and older brother, but is still considered immense. He is loud and boisterous, wears a large mustache and is bald. 

Wendel was killed in the book somewhat differently to the show: when the massacre started, he rose to his feet, but an arrow went in his open mouth and came out the back of his neck, killing him instantly. He did not have a chance to resist or surrender. 

Lord Wyman Manderly hates the Lannisters and the Freys for his son's death. He cannot act openly against them as long as his other son Wylis is held captive by the Lannisters, but he secretly plots to join Stannis and avenge Wendel's death. See alsoEdit Wendel Manderly on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "The Rains of Castamere" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Wendel_Manderly?oldid=231511"