White Walker Season(s) 5 First seen "Hardhome" Appeared in 1 episode (see below) Titles Lieutenant Status Deceased Death Killed by Jon Snow with Longclaw 
"Hardhome" Origin Lands of Always Winter Allegiance Night's King Culture White Walkers Portrayed by Tim Loane 

A White Walker is a character in the fifth season. He was one of the Night's King's lieutenants and one of the commanders of the growing wight army which marched on Hardhome, the last remaining wildling settlement. 

He partook in the massacre at Hardhome during which he killed Loboda, the new Magnar of the Thenns, before he was killed by Jon Snow, the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. Contents[show] Biography Edit Season 5Edit 

During the attack on Hardhome, while Jon and Loboda search for a bag of dragon glass weapons inside a burning wildling hut, the White Walker gives chase, extinguishing the flames with his mere presence. Loboda tries to fight him to buy Jon time to retrieve the dragon glass but upon contact with the Walker's icy spear his axe shatters. Loboda is slain by the White Walker. Jon, though plainly outmatched, takes on the Walker until with both combatants are astonished to find that Longclaw doesn't shatter but successfully counters the strike from the Walker's spear. Jon lands a blow on the White Walker, causing it to instantly shatter into a cloud of icy dust and fragments. 

His death is observed by the Night's King, who continues to watch Jon with interest, having finally seen something approaching actual resistance to the White Walkers' march. Appearances Edit Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Image galleryEdit The Walker enters the hut. Jon fights the White Walker 
Add a photo to this gallery See alsoEdit The Others on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ Game of Thrones Season 5: Inside the Episode #8 (HBO) ↑ 2.0 2.1 "Hardhome (episode) Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/White_Walker_(Hardhome)?oldid=230866"