Will Season(s) 1 Appeared in "Winter is Coming" Titles Ranger Status Deceased Death Beheaded for deserting by Eddard Stark 
"Winter is Coming" Allegiance Night's Watch Portrayed by Bronson Webb "I know I broke my oath. I know I'm a deserter. I should have gone back to the Wall and warned them but... I saw what I saw... I saw the White Walkers." ―Will[src] 

Will is a minor character in the first season. He is played by Bronson Webb and only appears in the series premiere. Will was a ranger in the Night's Watch who was executed for desertion by Ned Stark. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Will is a ranger of the Night's Watch. He was not of noble birth, but was posthumously described by Benjen Stark as a reliable soldier, a "true ranger". Season 1Edit 

Rangers Gared, Ser Waymar Royce and Will departing Castle Black on a ranging beyond the Wall. 

A patrol consisting of Will, Gared and Ser Waymar Royce set out into the Haunted Forest beyond the Wall. Will is later found hundreds of miles south of the Wall near Winterfell, apparently having gone renegade. He is apprehended and brought before Lord Eddard Stark for justice. Will claims that his companions have been brutally killed by the White Walkers and he fled in terror. Eddard does not believe the story and executes Will as a deserter, beheading him with his Valyrian greatsword, Ice. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Image galleryEdit Will in the haunted forest in "Winter is Coming". Will in "Winter is Coming". 
Add a photo to this gallery Behind the scenesEdit After playing the role in the unaired original pilot, it appeared that Webb would be unavailable to reprise the character for re-shoots and would have to be recast. However, it was later confirmed that Webb would indeed be returning to the role. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Will is famed for his skills as a tracker and a hunter, a result of his previous career as a poacher. After being caught by Lord Jason Mallister's woodsmen, he chose to take the black over losing a hand. He has been on the Wall for four years when the events of the books begin. 

In the TV series, some of Will and Gared's story roles have been switched around from the books. See alsoEdit Will on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Winter is Coming" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e The Night's Watch Lord Commander: 

Jon Snow Former Lords Commander: 

The Night's King · Brynden Rivers · Jeor Mormont Commanders: 

Ser Denys Mallister · Cotter Pyke Maesters: 

Aemon Rangers: First Ranger: 

Ser Alliser Thorne Current: 

Balian · Escan · Matthar · Nelugo · Niko · Ser Jaremy Rykker · Gared Tuttle · Finn · Hugh Former: 

Bannen · Borba · Gared · Grenn · Harker · Jafer Flowers · Karl Tanner · Othor · Qhorin Halfhand · Rast · Mance Rayder · Ser Waymar Royce · Benjen Stark (MIA) · Stiv · Stonesnake · Wallen · Will · Cooper · Smitty Stewards: First Steward: 

Bowen Marsh Current: 

Borcas · Clydas · Dareon · Gordo · Hobb · Mink · Myk · Samwell Tarly · Eddison Tollett · Joby · One-Eyed Joe · Luke · Lobor · Erik Former: 

Donnel Hill · Pypar Builders: First Builder: 

Othell Yarwyck Current: 

Allo · Echiel · Halder · Rancer · Toad · Vorkoy · Casper · Cotter Former: 

Kegs · Black Jack Bulwer · Mully Recruiters: Current: 

Unknown Former: 

Yoren Castles of the Watch: 

The Shadow Tower · Castle Black · Eastwatch-by-the-Sea · Deep Lake · Greyguard · Nightfort Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Will?oldid=228368"