The title of this article is conjecture based on information revealed in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels and may be subject to change. 

 
 Willis Wode Season(s) 1 First seen "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" Last seen "The Wolf and the Lion" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Titles Ser Status Deceased Death Killed by Hill tribesmen 
"The Wolf and the Lion" Allegiance House Whent 
House Wode Portrayed by Ryan McKenna 

Willis Wode is a recurring character in the first season. He is played by guest star Ryan McKenna and debuts in "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things." Ser Willis Wode is a knight in the service of House Whent. He helps Catelyn Stark to apprehend Tyrion Lannister and dies defending her during her passage through the Vale of Arryn. Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Ser Willis Wode is sworn to the service of House Whent of Harrenhal, a vassal house to House Tully. He is traveling the Kingsroad following the Tourney of the Hand. He carries a shield emblazoned with the black bat of Harrenhal. Season 1Edit 

Willis is drinking with another man at the Inn at the Crossroads when Tyrion Lannister arrives on his way south. Catelyn Stark is also in the inn and Tyrion recognizes her. She turns to the men of her father's bannermen to help her to take Tyrion into custody, accusing him of attempting to murder her son, Bran Stark. Catelyn announces that she will return Tyrion to Winterfell to await the King's justice. Ser Willis draws his sword and threatens Tyrion. 

Tyrion taken prisoner. 

He accompanies Catelyn east into the Vale of Arryn, her actual destination. Among the party are the captive Tyrion, the two Lannister men-at-arms who were traveling with Tyrion, Catelyn and her escort Ser Rodrik Cassel, the sellsword Bronn, the singer Marillion, a man of House Bracken and six other swordsmen loyal to House Tully. The party are attacked by warriors from the hill tribes. Ser Willis dies defending Catelyn. Catelyn, Tyrion, Rodrik, Bronn, Marillion, and two others survive the attack and continue to the Eyrie. AppearancesEdit Season One appearances Winter is Coming The Kingsroad Lord Snow Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things The Wolf and the Lion A Golden Crown You Win or You Die The Pointy End Baelor Fire and Blood Image galleryEdit Ser Willis at the Inn at the Crossroads. His shield bearing the sigil of House Whent is by his feet. 
Add a photo to this gallery In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ser Willis Wode is a hedge knight sworn to the service of Lady Shella Whent. He is a stiff necked and stolid man. He survives the journey to the Eyrie in the books. See alsoEdit Willis Wode on A Wiki of Ice and Fire ReferencesEdit ↑ "Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things" ↑ "The Wolf and the Lion" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Willis_Wode?oldid=227823"