Willem Frey Season(s) 2, 3 Mentioned in "A Man Without Honor" 
"Dark Wings, Dark Words" Status Unknown Allegiance House Frey 

Willem Frey is an unseen character mentioned in second and third season. He is a member of House Frey whose wedding was celebrated with a tournament some time before the series began. Contents[show] BiographyEdit Season 2Edit 

Ser Alton Lannister recalls squiring for his distant cousin Ser Jaime Lannister at the tournament. Jaime defeated Ser Balon Swann. The day was one of Alton's proudest achievements and he was disappointed when he had to leave the field to eat at the periphery of the wedding feast. Season 3Edit 

A Riverrun traveller told Lord Bolton's men that he has seen Jaime Lannister fight in a tournament at Willem Frey's wedding. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, there is a character named Willem Frey but he is a young grandson of Lord Walder Frey and the second son of Ser Cleos Frey (the analogous character of Ser Alton Lannister) and Jeyne Darry. This "Willem Frey" is only ten years old, and thus was never married. He serves as a page at Ashemark. He does not make an appearance in the books so far, and is only mentioned in the appendix. See alsoEdit Willem Frey on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ "A Man Without Honor" ↑ "Dark Wings, Dark Words" v&nbsp;•&nbsp;d&nbsp;•&nbsp;e House Frey Lord: Lord Walder Frey Heir: Ser Stevron Frey Seat: The Twins · Riverrun Lands: Riverlands Title(s): Lord of the Crossing · Lord of Riverrun · Lord Paramount of the Trident Ancestors: Frey Current members: Arwaya Frey · Derwa Frey · Freya Frey · Janeya Frey · Lothar Frey · Marianne Frey · Merry Frey · Neyela Frey · Olyvar Frey · Roslin Frey · Sarra Frey · Serra Frey · Shirei Frey · Walda Frey · "Fat Walda" Frey · Waldra Frey · Waldron Frey · Ryger Rivers · Black Walder Rivers Deceased members: Joyeuse Erenford Household: Malcolm · Talbot Overlord: House Baratheon of King's Landing Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Willem_Frey?oldid=228408"