

 Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun Season(s) 5, 6 First seen "Hardhome" Appeared in 2 episodes (see below) Also known as "Wun Wun" Status Alive Allegiance The Free Folk Culture Giants Portrayed by Ian Whyte "Lokh kif rukh? (The fuck you looking at?)" ―Wun Wun to Eddison Tollett[src] 

Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun&nbsp;is a recurring character in the fifth and sixth seasons. He is a wildling Giant who resides at Hardhome. &nbsp;He is more commonly referred to by the other wildlings as "Wun Wun". Contents[show] BiographyEdit BackgroundEdit 

Wun Wun is a Giant, and possibly the only non-human to reside in Hardhome.&nbsp; Season 5Edit 

Wun Wun is present when Jon Snow and Tormund Giantsbane battle against the White Walkers. Wun Wun appears willing to support Tormund. Later, when the Night's Watch is gathering the dragonglass that Jon shared with the wildlings, as it can kill the White Walkers, Wun Wun is holding a dragonglass arrowhead, and Eddison Tollett approaches to tell the giant to give it up, though he is too afraid to do so because of his intimidating size. Wun Wun gets annoyed by his inaction and asks "The fuck you looking at?" in the giants' rudimentary form of the Old Tongue, so Edd goes away quietly, without collecting the arrowhead. When the Wights attack the village, Wun Wun single-handedly defeats about a dozen of them by ripping them apart, stomping on them, and defending himself with a large burning log. He then retreats into the sea with Jon and the remaining defenders. Being too large for the rowboats, he simply wades out into the bay for a long distance (not drowning due to his great height) to reach the larger ships waiting off shore. He is one of the few wildlings to escape the Massacre at Hardhome, and the fleet travels back to the Wall. 

Alongside the other wildlings, he passes the Wall and leaves Castle Black to settle in the Gift. Many brothers of the Night's Watch are intimidated by him, having never seen a giant before. AppearancesEdit Season Five appearances The Wars to Come The House of Black and White High Sparrow Sons of the Harpy Kill the Boy Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken The Gift Hardhome The Dance of Dragons Mother’s Mercy Image galleryEdit Wun Weg observing the dragon glass. Wun Weg to Eddison Tollett. Wun Weg listening to the wights climb the hut. Behind the scenesEdit Stuntman Ian Whyte has previously played several roles in Game of Thrones, including Dongo - the first giant to appear in the TV series back in the Season 3 premiere, who later died in the Battle of Castle Black at the end of Season 4. Wun Wun is also the first giant to have any speaking lines in the TV series. In the booksEdit 

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun is at least fourteen feet tall, even larger than&nbsp;Mag the Mighty, and possesses the strength of twelve men.&nbsp;Whilst typically passive and quiet, he will lash out if provoked.&nbsp;Unlike the savage giants in Old Nan's stories, he is vegetarian. He speaks the&nbsp;Old Tongue. 

Along with some&nbsp;wildlings, Wun Wun is discovered by Jon Snow&nbsp;when he leads new recruits to the&nbsp;weirwood&nbsp;grove in the Haunted Forest. With the help of some diplomacy by the new wildling recruit&nbsp;Leathers, they avoid a fight and manage to convince the wildlings and the giant to return with them to&nbsp;Castle Black. 

Wun Wun does not take part in the battle at Hardhome. It is unknown if he ever was there at all. 

Shortly after Jon announces he intends to travel south and fight Ramsay, he hears a commotion at Hardin’s Tower. He rushes there and sees Wun Wun smashing the head of a knight named Ser Patrek of King’s Mountain. Jon commands the gathering people to keep back and put away their weapons, and tries to calm the giant down. It is then Jon is attacked by his own men. 

Wun Wun's name is an in-joke by George R.R. Martin: an avid American Football fan, Martin named him after Phil Simms, quarterback for the New York Giants, whose jersey number was "#11" - "one one", or "wun wun". See AlsoEdit Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (MAJOR spoilers from the books) ReferencesEdit ↑ 1.0 1.1 "Hardhome" ↑ "The Dance of Dragons" Retrieved from "http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Wun_Weg_Wun_Dar_Wun?oldid=229844"