{{Heraldry
|image=Martell shield icon.png
|link=House Martell

{{Character
|Title = Ellaria Sand
|Season = 4, 5, 6
|First= Two Swords
|Last=
|Appearances= 9 episodes (see below)
|Image= Ellaria-S5.png
|Mentioned = 
|Status = Alive
|Aka= 
|Allegiance = House MartellHouse Uller
|Culture= Dornishmen
|Place=Hellholt
|Titles = 
|Family = Oberyn Martell - paramourTyene Sand - daughterThree other daughtersDoran clearly states in The Dance of Dragons that Ellaria is mother to four of his nieces - though Tyene wasn't Ellaria's daughter in the novels.
|Actor  Indira Varma|Age  

Quote|You think I disapprove, why? Because people disapprove of that sort of thing where you are from? They disapproved of Oberyn and me where you are from. Here, no one blinked an eye. A hundred years ago, no one would of blinked an eye at you, if you'd been named Targaryen. It's always changing, who we're supposed to love, and who we're not. The only thing that stays the same is we want who we want.|Ellaria to Jaime Lannister about love.|The Dance of Dragons

Ellaria Sand is a major character in the fifthand sixthseasons. She initially appeared as a recurring character in the fourth season, debuting in Two Swords. She is portrayed by starring cast member Indira Varma. Ellaria is the paramour of Prince Oberyn Martell of Dorne and a bastard of House Uller. Sand is the surname used for noble-born bastards in Dorne, like Snow in the North.

After Oberyn is killed while championing Tyrion Lannister in a trial by combat against Gregor Clegane, Ellaria pressures Oberyn's brother, Doran Martell, to go to war against the Lannisters, and hatches a scheme with three of Oberyn's bastard daughters to kill Myrcella Baratheon, the daughter of Cersei Lannister, as revenge for Cersei unjustly accusing Tyrion, since it led to Oberyn's death. Though she is temporarily stopped and threatened with execution by Doran, Ellaria secretly poisons Myrcella.

Biography
Background
Ellaria is the mother of four of Prince Oberyn Martell's eight bastard daughters. Her eldest daughter is Tyene. Like Oberyn, Ellaria is attracted to both men and women.The Dance of Dragons

Season 4
thumb|right|Ellaria partakes of King's Landing's entertainment.
After their arrival inKing's Landing, Ellaria and her lover, PrinceOberyn Martell, head to one ofLittlefinger's brothels. Oberyn examines three whores while Ellaria lies on the bed, asking her which one she would like. She says that she doesn't want a timid one and he eventually finds one to her liking. WhenOlyvarcalls Ellaria my lady, she calls him out for using a lie to address her and tells him to call her what she is: abastard. When Oberyn hears men singing theRains of Castamerein the next room, Ellaria tries to stop him but can only watch as Oberyntakes out his rage on the Lannister men-at-arms. She proceeds to passionately kiss him as Tyrion Lannister and Bronnenter the room seeking Oberyn.Two Swords
thumb|left|Ellaria Sand and Oberyn Martell are greeted by Tywin and Cersei at Joffrey's wedding.

Ellaria and Oberyn attendJoffrey'swedding, where she is introduced to Tywin LannisterandCersei Lannister. Cersei subtly (and hypocritically) mocks her bastard status, instigating a debate over the cultural differences between the Dornish and the rest of Westeros. She later witnesses the poisoning of King Joffrey.The Lion and the Rose

thumb|Ellaria and Oberyn are interrupted.
In the days following Joffrey's death, Ellaria and Oberyn again visit the brothel. On this occasion, Ellaria is serviced by Marei and another woman; Ellaria steals a kiss from Olyvar, who apologizes and says he simply hasn't developed the taste for women. Ellaria soothes Oberyn's anger at the suggestion that she is an acquired taste, by reminding him that this means he has Olyvar to himself. Ellaria leaves when Lord Tywin unexpectedly shows up and asks to meet privately with Oberyn, but says that Oberyn need only call if he needs her.Breaker of Chains

thumb|left|Ellaria screams in horror as she watches the brutal death of Oberyn.
During Tyrion's trial by combat, Ellaria, in spite of having heard tales of the Mountain for years, is somewhat disturbed to see exactly how large he really is, expressing with disbelief, you're going to fight that?!. Ellaria watches with Tyrion from the sidelines and is delighted when it looks like Oberyn has won. When Oberyn demands that Gregor confess his crimes before he dies, he meets Ellaria's eyes and she nods approvingly. Her delight turns to shock and horror when the Mountain gains the upper hand on Oberyn and crushes his skull, at which she can do nothing but scream.The Mountain and the Viper

Season 5
thumb|left|Ellaria confronts Prince Doran.
At the Water Gardens, Ellaria, still in mourning clothes, observes Trystane Martell and Myrcella Baratheon from a distance. She approaches Prince Doran Martell, but her path is initially blocked by Captain Areo Hotah. Ellaria threatens Areo before the captain is ordered by Doran to stand down. Angrily, Ellaria scolds Doran for his apparent inaction at the news of Oberyn's death. Doran plans to bury and mourn his beloved brother, but Ellaria and Oberyn'sdaughters want the Dornish people to take up arms and avenge their fallen prince. She also voices her contempt for Myrcella and wants to harm her in order to take revenge on Cersei for falsely putting Tyrion on the show trial that led to Oberyn's death. Doran strictly forbids this, stating that under his rule, they will not mutilate little girls for revenge. Ellaria voices doubts that Doran will remain in power if he continues to do nothing and leaves.The House of Black and White

thumb|Ellaria plots with the Sand Snakes.
She later meets with Obara, Nymeria and her daughter Tyene, telling them that Doran will mourn for Oberyn but won't do anything. As Obara points out that they have no army without the support of the Prince to challenge the Lannisters Ellaria says that they won't need an army because they have Myrcella. Nymeria informs her that there's perhaps a problem, presenting her the merchant captain who smuggled Jaime Lannister to Dorne and tried to sell this information to Obara, just to end buried in the sand. Ellaria realises that Jamie has come for Myrcella and asks the three which way they choose, Doran's or hers. Tyene is the first one declaring for her, followed by Nymeria and then Obara, who makes her point by telling how she first met Oberyn, when she made her choice, and then she uses her spear to kill the captain.Sons of the Harpy (episode)

Ellaria and the Sand Snakes return to the Water Gardens to kidnap Myrcella and use her for their revenge against the Lannisters. They swear, by the words of House Martell, to do what is needed to avenge Oberyn. However, Prince Doran had forseen their attempt to take Myrcella and his guard, led by Aero Hotah, arrests the Sand Snakes and Ellaria for their treachery.Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken

thumb|left|Ellaria is present when Jaime Lannister is brought before Prince Doran.
Ellaria is later brought before Doran to receive Jaime, though she is openly hostile towards him, calling him Kingslayer and refusing to drink a toast to Tommen as the new King. On her way out, she insults Doran, who in turn threatens to kill her if she speaks to him like that again. Later, Doran issues Ellaria an ultimatum: pledge allegiance to him, or die. She tearfully complies. She later visits Jaime in his quarters and makes amends with him, knowing that neither he nor Myrcella played any part in Oberyn's death, but expresses her knowledge that Myrcella is not Jaime's niece, but his daughter. Before leaving, she mocks him for not being born centuries ago into the Targaryen family, in which position his incest would have been accepted.The Dance of Dragons

thumb|Ellaria poisons Myrcella.
As the Sand Snakes say goodbye to the expedition back to King's Landing, Ellaria kisses Myrcella on the lips. As the ship is away in the horizon, Ellaria wipes blood from her nose and takes an antidote for the poison coated on her lips, which has just taken Myrcella's life on the boat, and walks away silently, contemplating what will follow when Doran finds out that she has betrayed him and put his son's life in danger.Mother's Mercy

Appearances
Season Four Appearances|yes|yes|yes|||||yes
Season Five Appearances||yes||yes||yes|||yes|yes

Family Tree
House Martell family tree
Quotes
Quote|Why don't you use the right words. I'm a bastard, and she is a whore.|Ellaria to Olyvar at the brothel.|Two SwordsDialogue a-b|Cersei Lannister|Can't say I've ever met a Sand before.|Ellaria Sand|We are everywhere in Dorne. I have ten thousand brothers and sisters.|Ellaria stands up to Queen Cersei's mockery of her bastard surname.|The Lion and the RoseDialogue a-b|Ellaria Sand|You're going to fight that?|Oberyn Martell|I'm going to kill that!|Ellaria and Oberyn before the trial by combat|The Mountain and the ViperQuote|Don't leave me alone in this world.|Ellaria's last words to Oberyn Martell.|The Mountain and the ViperQuote|Oberyn is dead, and this Lannister girl skips about the Water Gardens, eating our food, breathing our air.|Ellaria to Doran Martell|The House of Black and WhiteQuote|You must choose. Doran's way and peace, or my way, and war.|Ellaria to the Sand Snakes|Sons of the HarpyQuote|No wonder you can't stand, you have no spine.|Ellaria to Doran|The Dance of Dragons

Image Gallery

Ellaria-Sand-house-martell-37136448-4928-3280.jpg
Pedro-Pascal-as-Oberyn-Martell-Indira-Varma-as-Ellaria-Sand photo-Helen-Sloan HBO.jpg|Promotional image of Oberyn Martell and Ellaria Sand, his paramour.
Ellaria-Sand-house-martell-36908768-2832-4256.jpg|Ellaria in Two Swords.
OberynEllariaPW.jpg|Oberyn and Ellaria at the royal wedding in The Lion and the Rose.
Ellaria annoyed at Cersei PW.jpg|Ellaria is annoyed at Cersei on Joffrey's wedding in The Lion and the Rose.
Ellaria PW HD still.jpg|High-definition production still of Ellaria's gown at the royal wedding
Ellaria Sand in Breaker of Chains.png|Ellaria at the brothel several days after Joffrey's wedding in Breaker of Chains.
Ellaria oberyn 4.png|Ellaria and Oberyn's last kiss before the trial by combat in The Mountain and the Viper.
Ellaria-s5.jpeg|Ellaria in Season 5.
The_Sons_of_the_Harpy_02.jpg|Ellaria in Sons of the Harpy.


Behind the scenes
*On the Season 4 Blu-ray, Ellaria narrates the Histories &amp; Lore videos on The Bastards of Westeros.

In the books
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ellaria Sand is the paramour of Prince Oberyn Martell. She is the bastard daughter of Lord Harmen Uller, the Lord of Hellholt - thus she is one of the Sandy Dornishmen of the central desert of Dorne, who possess particularly dark skin, burned brown by the hot desert sun. Her hair and eyes are also black. She is described as not explicitly beautiful, as she is no longer a young woman and has borne four children, though still attractive and eye-catching, with an exotic, sensuous flair. Like her partner Oberyn, she expresses sexual interest in both women and men. It is not unusual for lords and ladies in Dorne to be openly bisexual, due to the relaxed attitude towards sexuality among the Dornish. She's rumored to worship a Lysene love godess and is dubbed The Serpent's whore - the serpent in question being Oberyn Martell - by Olenna Redwyne.

Ellaria is the mother of the four youngest of Oberyn's eight bastard daughters, who are all collectively known as the Sand Snakes. Ellaria's four daughters with Oberyn are Elia, Obella, Dorea, and Loreza Sand.

In the books, Ellaria doesn't advocate war against the Lannisters, much less exacting revenge by harming Myrcella. In fact, she urges against war, because she is worried the cycle of revenge will continue until even her youngest daughters are eventually consumed by it. The role of going against Doran's orders by trying to spark a war is at first taken up by the three eldest Sand Snakes: Obara, Nymeria and Tyene. In fact, Obara is the one who approaches Doran in the Water Gardens and accuses him of inaction. However, the Sand Snakes act independently instead of under Ellaria's directive, and are soon reined in by Doran anyway. Later, it is Arianne, Doran's daughter and heir, who urges for war and actually puts a plan in motion using Myrcella, though it doesn't involve harming her either.

During Arianne's failed plot, Myrcella is the target of an assassination attempt by one of Arianne's own supporters: Ser Gerold Dayne, the Knight of High Hermitage, head of a lesser branch of House Dayne, though Arianne was unaware of Dayne's motives. Unlike in the show, Myrcella survives the injury but is left disfigured, and Doran orders a manhunt for Dayne.

See also
*AWOIAF (MAJOR spoilers from the books)
*AWOIAF|Arianne Martell (MAJOR spoilers from the books)
*AWOIAF|Gerold Dayne (MAJOR spoilers from the books)

References
Reflist|2
Martell navbox
DEFAULTSORT:Sand, Ellaria


de:Ellaria Sand
es:Ellaria Arena
it:Ellaria Sand
pl:Ellaria Sand
ru:Эллария Сэнд
zh:艾拉莉亚·沙德