{{Heraldry
|image=House-Reed-Main-Shield.PNG
|link=House Reed

{{Character
| Title=Jojen Reed
| Image=Jojen-Reed-Profile.jpg
| Season=3, 4
| First= Dark Wings, Dark Words
| Last= The Children
| Appearances=10 episodes (see below)
| Titles=
| Aka=
| Status= Deceased
| Death=Stabbed multiple times by a wight, mercy-killed by Meera and blasted by a fireball
| Place=Greywater Watch
| Culture=Crannogmen
| Religion=Old Gods of the Forest
| Allegiance=House ReedHouse Stark
| Family=Howland Reed - fatherMeera Reed - sister
| ActorThomas Brodie-Sangster|Age  |DeathEp = The Children
Quote|I'm Jojen Reed, this is my sister Meera. We've come a long way to find you Brandon, and we have much farther to go.|Jojen Reed to Bran Stark|Dark Wings, Dark Words
Jojen Reed is a recurring character in the third and fourth seasons. He is played by gueststarThomas Brodie-Sangster and debuts in Dark Wings, Dark Words.

Biography
Background
Jojen is the younger brother of Meera Reed and is the eldest son and heir of Lord Howland Reed of Greywater Watch.

Season 3
Bran Stark, Rickon Stark, Osha, Hodor, Summer and Shaggydog are fleeing to Castle Black following the Sack of WinterfellValar Morghulis when Jojen first appears to Bran in a dream. Later he walks up to him while he is alone in the forest saying that he and his sister have been searching for him for a long time so that they can protect him.OshasurprisesJojenby putting a spear to the back of his neck, butOshareleases him whenMeerasuddenly appears with a knife toOsha'sneck.Osha warns Jojen that Summer will protect Bran, should Meeraharm him but Summer sniffs Jojen's hand and walks on.Jojen and Bran bond as they discuss their fathers when Jojen recalls that he has traveled in his mind to witness Robert's Rebellion in his dreams. Jojen gives cryptic information about Bran's powers as a warg. Osha grows increasingly resentful of Jojen.Dark Wings, Dark Words

Jojen and Bran share a greensight dream where Bran climbs a tree to follow a three-eyed raven, although Bran falls after Catelyn Stark appears repeating her warning in which she made him promise never to climb again - a promise Bran broke. Bran and Jojen wake in their camp in the woods, disappointed that he could not follow the three-eyed raven.And Now His Watch is Ended

Jojen Reed has another vision which appears as a seizure. Jojen then tells Bran that in his vision he saw Jon Snow surrounded by enemies.The Climb

After seeking shelter in a derelict windmill during a rainstorm, the group notices a band of wildlings chasing down an old man. The sounds of thunder terrify Hodor, who shouts out in panic. Fearing discovery, Jojen tells Bran to silence Hodor, who keeps panicking. Bran unintentionally uses his Warg powers to render Hodor unconscious. With the wildlings still outside, Jojen convinces Bran to Warg through Summer and Shaggydog outside, who then maul to death some of the wildlings. While in control of Summer and Shaggydog, Bran saw Jon Snow outside fighting the wildlings. After this, Bran insists that he must go beyond the Wall to find the raven. However, he wants Rickon to be safe, so hetells Osha to take his brotherwith her to the holdfast of Greatjon Umber, a loyal bannerman of the Starks. Bran bids a tearful Rickon farewell, who leaves with Osha and Shaggydog, while Bran continues northward with Hodor, Summer and the Reed siblings.The Rains of Castamere

At last, the group make it to the Wall and stay overnight in the Nightfort, an abandoned castle on the Wall that is rumored to be haunted. During the night, Jon Snow's fellow Night's Watch comrade Samwell Tarly, with Gilly and her child, emerge from a secret passageway. Samwell, noticing the gigantic Hodor and Summer, realizes who Bran is and offers to take them to Castle Black, but Jojen tells Sam that they are going beyond the Wall, as no force in the realm of Westeros could withstand the threat posed by the White Walkers. Sam reluctantly shows them the secret sally port and gives them the obsidian blades found north of the Wall, which he earlier used to slay a White Walker. That night, Bran, the Reeds, Hodor and Summer finally pass beyond the Wall.Mhysa

Season 4
When Bran becomes obsessed with warging Summer, Jojen is forced to warn him of the dangers that perhaps Bran will be trapped by his own powers. He emphasises that they need Bran to survive. Heading further North, Jojen helps Bran find a heart tree, which shows the young boy the way.The Lion and the Rose

Later, Bran and his companionsare resting near Craster's Keep. They hear the faint sounds of a baby's cries. Bran enters the mind of Summer to investigate where he finds Ghost, the direwolf ofJon Snow. However, before he can free Ghost, Summer is caught by a trap. At Meera'surgings, they go to rescue Summer and Ghost but are taken prisoner byKarl. While Hodor is being tormented byRastand the other mutineers for pure amusement, Karl threatens to kill Jojen and Meera before Bran gives up his identity.The Lion and the Rose

thumb|left|Jojen convinces Bran  to abandon his brother to find the Three-eyed raven.
Jojenand the others are being held imprisoned in a tent. Karl enters the tent and ties upMeeraand prepares to rape and torture her. Jojen begs for mercy and offers to help them, saying he possessesthe sight. Karl refuses and just before he cuts Meera, Jon Snow and members of theNight's Watchattack the keep.Locke, who really servesRoose Bolton, searches for Bran and finds him and attempts to escape the keep with Bran. However, Jojensignals Bran towarginto Hodor, allowing him to save his own body throughHodor's. WhenBran is about to get Jon's attention,Jojenarrives and intervenes, telling him that Jon will not let him search for theThree-eyed ravenif he goes with Jon back toCastle Black. Bran agrees and prepares to leave.First of His Name

thumb|Jojen dead after being stabbed by a wight.
The group arrives at the tree from Bran's vision, but they are ambushed bywightsthat emerge from beneath the snow. Jojen is grabbed by one of the wights, but Meera comes to his aid before he is dragged beneath the snow. Meera successfully protects him, but one of the seemingly defeated wights pulls a knife out and repeatedly stabs him. Jojen lives long enough to see a child of the forest, and tells his sister to go with Bran and the others. Before doing so, Meera mercifully cuts his throat. Soon after, the child of the forest uses her magic todestroy Jojen's body to prevent its reanimation as another wight.The Children

Family tree
House Reed family tree

Appearances
Season Three Appearances||yes||yes||yes|yes||yes|yes
Season Four Appearances||yes||yes|yes|||||yes
Quotes
Template:Quote|This...this isn't the end. Not for you, not yet.|Jojen Reed to Bran Stark|First of His Name

Behind the scenes
*Jojen Reed and his sister first appeared in the second book A Clash of Kings before the Fall of Winterfell, but they did not appear in the show's second season. Their debut was pushed back to Season 3 due to time constraints, according to David Benioff: We just felt the Reeds would make more of an impact coming in later... If things get too byzantine, it's so confusing that none of it adds up, and you're spending three minutes with characters per episode, and the whole thing becomes a wash.Sepinwall, Alan (March 27, 2013). http://www.hitfix.com/whats-alan-watching/game-of-thrones-producers-say-season-3-as-big-as-were-going-to-get 'Game of Thrones' producers say season 3 'as big as we're going to get HitFix.
*Thomas Brodie-Sangster's casting was first announced at the 2012 San Diego Comic-Con International.http://www.westeros.org/GoT/News/Entry/Massive_Comic-Con_Casting_Reveals/ Massive Comic-Con Casting Reveals from Westeros.org, 13 July 2012

In the books
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jojen Reed is the only son and heir of Lord Howland Reed of Greywater Watch, the southernmost of the vassal houses sworn to Winterfell. Jojen is thirteen and is noted as being serious and solemn for his age, yet also wise beyond his years, leading Old Nan (who was still alive at this point) to nickname him Little Grandfather. Jojen and Meera are guests at Winterfell when it is taken by Theon Greyjoy, as they originally came in their father's stead to renew fealty with House Stark when Bran becomes the acting Lord of Winterfell. It is Jojen and not Bran who dreams of the attack of the Ironborn, as well as the deaths of Alebelly, Septon Chayle and Mikken. When the Stark boys escape Winterfell with their wolves, Hodor, and Osha, the Reeds join them.

Jojen does not die during the battle with the wights in the book. Although in the bookJojen has had adreamabout his fate when he goes to Greywater Watch, and implies that the outcome is not good. Jojen is getting increasingly sick by the time the group arrives at the cave, but his prophecy about his death has not yet actually happened. It is unknown if he will have a similar death scene in future novels.

Jojen states that, while having dreams of the future, he's not a greenseer.

See also
* AWOIAF (MAJOR spoilers from the books)

References
Reflist|2
DEFAULTSORT:Reed, Jojen
Reed navbox

de:Jojen Reet
es:Jojen Reed
it:Jojen Reed
ru:Жойен Рид
zh:玖健·黎德