{{Heraldry
|leftimage=Stark shield icon.png
|leftlink=House Stark
|rightimage=Crow shield icon.png
|rightlink=Night's Watch

{{Character
| Title = Jon Snow
| Image = Jon_Snow_(S05E05).jpg
| Season = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
| First = Winter is Coming
| Last =Mother's Mercy 
| Appearances = 41 episodes (see below)
| Aka = Lord SnowThe Bastard of WinterfellKing Crow
| Status = Deceased
| Death = Stabbed repeatedly by Night's Watch mutineers
| Titles = 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch
| Place = Winterfell
| Allegiance = The Night's WatchHouse Stark
| Family = Eddard Stark - fatherWylla - motherRickard Stark - paternal grandfatherBrandon Stark - paternal uncleLyanna Stark - paternal auntBenjen Stark - paternal uncleRobb Stark - half-brotherSansa Stark - half-sisterArya Stark - half-sisterBran Stark - half-brotherRickon Stark - half-brotherTalisa Maegyr - sister-in-lawTyrion Lannister - half-brother-in-lawRamsay Bolton - half-brother-in-lawYgritte - lover
| Religion = Old Gods of the Forest
| Culture = Northmen
| Actor  Kit Harington|DeathEp Mother's Mercy 
| Age = 20 in Season 5Jon is roughly the same age as Robb, and they were both born near the end of Robert's Rebellion - which in the novels was 15 years before the beginning of the narrative, and they were both 14.  In the TV version the rebellion was 17 years ago, making Jon and Robb 16 in Season 1.  Four years pass in the TV series by Season 5.
Quote|I’m not asking you to forget your dead. I’ll never forget mine. I lost fifty brothers the night that Mance attacked the Wall. But I’m asking you to think about your children now. They’ll never have children of their own if we don’t band together. The Long Night is coming and the dead come with it. No clan can stop them. The Free Folk can’t stop them, the Night’s Watch can’t stop them and all the southern kings can’t stop them! Only together. All of us. And even then it may not be enough, but at least we give the fuckers a fight.|Jon Snow|Hardhome (episode)
Jon Snow is a major character in the first, second, third,fourth, fifth and sixth seasons. He is played by starring cast member Kit Harington, and debuts in the series premiere. Jon is the bastard son of Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell. He was a steward in the Night's Watch. Now serving on the Wall, Jon has found a place of acceptance where the circumstances of his birth are of little importance. He has a pet direwolf named Ghost, andwields the bastard sword, Longclaw, which was a gift from Lord Commander Jeor Mormont, who took Jon as his personal steward and came to see him as a surrogate son.

On a mission to discover King-Beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder's plans, Jon infiltrates the wildling army. While learning their plans, Jon falls in love with a wildling woman, Ygritte, and begins a relationship with her. Jon is later forced to leave her behind after they scale the Wall, returning to his sworn brothers in the Watch to warn them about the coming invasion.

After the Battle of Castle Black, the defense of which he helped lead, Jon is narrowly elected the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. As Lord Commander, Jon supports a controversial alliance between the Night's Watch and the Free Folk to fight against the White Walkers, and with his wildling ally, Tormund, he travels to Hardhome, where most of the Free Folk are massacred by the White Walkers and only a few thousand manage to escape with Jon. In that battle, Jon becomes the second black brother to kill a White Walker, in the process discovering their vulnerability to Valyrian steel. After all his hard choices to do the right thing for the greater good, his strained relationship with his Watch brothers finally seals his fate. As they mutiny against him, Jon is stabbed numerous times and left to bleed out and die in the snow.

Biography
Background
thumb|left|Ned brings a newborn Jon to Winterfell.

Jon is the bastard son of Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell,the head of House Stark and Lord Paramount of the North. The North is one of the constituent regions of the Seven Kingdoms in Westeros, and House Stark is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Stark rules the region from their seat of Winterfell and Eddard also holds the title Lord of Winterfell. He is also the Warden of the North to King Robert Baratheon.http://viewers-guide.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/season2/#!/guide/houses/stark/ HBO vhttp://viewers-guide.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/season2/#!/guide/houses/stark/ ieweSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonCategory:House StarkSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonSnow, JonCategory:Lords Commander of the Night's WatchCategory:Status: Deadhttp://viewers-guide.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/season2/#!/guide/houses/stark/ rs guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark entry

Eddard once told King Robert Baratheon that Jon's mother is a serving girl named Wylla, but refused to elaborate any further. Jon himself has no knowledge of his mother, not knowing if she's alive or not.The Kingsroad

thumb|right|Jon and Robb play with snowballs in their childhood.
Jon was raised at Winterfell on an equal footing with Eddard's legitimate children. He has an older half-brother Robb, two younger half-sisters Sansa and Arya, and two younger half-brothers Bran and Rickon. Jon's presence at Winterfell is a source of friction between Eddard and his wife, Catelyn, although Catelyn put aside her anger temporarily when the infant Jon became severely ill. Jon got on well with his half-siblings, particularly Robb and Arya.http://viewers-guide.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/season2/#!/guide/houses/stark/jon-snow/ HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stark - Jon Snow entry

Season 1
thumb|left|Jon and Robb instruct Bran.

Jon Snow and Robb instruct Bran in archery, when they learn about a captured deserter. Jon accompanies his father, Robb, Bran and Theon Greyjoy to the beheading of a deserter, Will, from the Night's Watch; it is Bran's first time watching his father carry out an execution. Jon warns Bran not to look away, as their father will know. Jon praises Bran afterwards for keeping his composure. On their way back to Winterfell, they find a dead direwolf and six newborn pups. Jon talks Lord Eddard into allowing the young Starks to adopt them, pointing out that a direwolf is the sigil of House Stark : given that there are five direwolves and five trueborn Stark children, it must be a sign from the Old Gods that the Stark children are meant to have the pups. In order to make this point, Jon intentionally leaves himself out of the count of Stark children, and when Bran asks about this Jon responds that he is not a Stark. However, just as they are about to leave, they find the runt of the litter, an albino, which crawled away from its mother's corpse. On Theon's suggestion, as an outsider like himself, Jon takes this direwolf as his own, naming him Ghost. Treated coldly by his stepmother, Jon decides to approach his uncle Benjen and offer to join the Night's Watch.Winter is Coming He meets Tyrion Lannister, a dwarf who knows what it is like to be an outcast. Tyrion tells him to wear the name bastard as a badge of honor, so no one can hurt him with the word.

thumb|Jon finds Ghost beside his dead mother.

Jon has a run in with Jaime Lannister who sarcastically thanks him for protecting all of them from all of the terrible things that allegedly exist beyond the Wall, in order to taunt him. Before Jon departs for the Wall, he says goodbye to Bran, who has been injured in a fall. He gives Arya a sword named Needle that he had made especially for her, advising her to stick them with the pointy end. Jon says he will miss her, and they both hug. As he prepares his saddle, Robb asks if Jon said goodbye to Bran, and expresses his doubt in him dying. Jon says Starks are hard to kill, and Robb asks about his mother, and Jon assures him she was kind. Robb offers to visit him at the Wall sometime, and they bid farewell with a hug. At their parting on the Kingsroad, Eddard vows to tell Jon the truth about his mother the next time they meet. Jon is accompanied by his uncle Benjen and Tyrion, who has expressed a desire to see the Wall (and urinate from the top of it) before he dies.

thumb|left|Jon and Sam swear their oaths to the Old Gods.

At Castle Black, Jon's expectations of the Night's Watch are confounded. Instead of a brotherhood of noble warriors sworn to defend the realm from wildlings and White Walkers, he realizes the Watch is a dumping ground for criminals and wastrels. He earns the enmity of Ser Alliser Thorne, the Master-at-Arms in charge of training new recruits. He humiliates his fellow recruits with his superior fighting skills, learned from Winterfell's Master-at-Arms over the course of many years. Benjen stands with Jon on his first watch and tells him that he is going ranging North of the Wall. Jon is keen to accompany him but Benjen insists that he complete his training. Tyrion helps Jon see that he is no better than the recruits but has been afforded more advantages than them. Jon offers to train some of his new brothers and Pypar and Grenn accept.Lord Snow He also befriends Samwell Tarly when he arrives at Castle Black and helps to protect him from the cruelty of Thorne. Thorne angrily tells Jon that going easy on Sam won't help him, and will risk getting him killed during the next winter.Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things

thumb|Lord Commander Mormont rewards Jon Snow.

After completing his training, Jon is inducted into the Night's Watch and swears his oath. He is assigned to the stewards rather than the rangers, and at first thinks it is due to his ongoing feud with Ser Alliser Thorne. However, Sam points out that Lord Commander Jeor Mormont has asked for Jon as his personal steward, and may be grooming him for command. Jon is concerned when his Uncle Benjen's horse returns to the Wall riderless. Later, Ghost finds the corpses of two rangers assigned to Benjen, Othor and Ser Jafer Flowers.You Win or You Die Learning of Eddard's imprisonment in King's Landing, Thorne taunts Jon about being a traitor's bastard, causing Jon to draw a knife. He is restricted to quarters. Later, Othor's corpse becomes a wight and attacks Commander Mormont. Jon saves Mormont's life by burning the wight, earning a pardon for his earlier misdemeanor.The Pointy End Mormont also gives Jon his Valyrian steel sword, Longclaw. thumb|left|Jon is convinced to go back to the Night's Watch. Jon ponders abandoning the Watch to join Robb's army when it marches against the Lannisters, but Maester Aemon tells him that he chose to stay with the Watch when he was similarly tested, when Robert Baratheon's rebels slew his nephew the Mad King and his son and grandchildren.Baelor

News of Eddard's execution reaches Castle Black. Jon immediately leaves, meaning to join Robb and seek vengeance for his father's death. Samwell, Pypar and Grenn intercept him and convince him to stay. Mormont tells Jon their war against the White Walkers is more important than the game of thrones in King's Landing. He tells Jon that the Watch is marching beyond the Wall in force, to find Benjen and learn the truth about the threat. Jon swears to him not to attempt to desert again and accompanies the troops as they set out.Fire and Blood

Season 2
Lord Commander Jeor Mormont prepares Jon for a command role as the Great Ranging travels North seeking Benjen Stark and an explanation for the wight attack. They pass through several abandoned wildling villages before arriving at the home of their unsavory ally Craster. Jon is perplexed when he learns that Craster marries his daughters but apparently has no sons. He takes an instant dislike to Craster when they meet with him. The feeling is mutual but Craster does reveal to Jeor that he has not seen Benjen and that the wildlings are gathering with their leader, King Beyond the Wall Mance Rayder. Jeor reprimands Jon for failing to follow his lead with Craster.The North Remembers

thumb|Jon at the Fist of the First Men.

Samwell Tarly appeals to Jon to aid Craster's pregnant daughter wife Gilly. She is afraid of having a son but will not say why. Jon is frustrated and refuses to disobey Jeor's order to leave Craster's wives alone. Jon sees Craster carrying a newborn into the woods and follows him. He sees Craster leave the child for a White Walker but does not recognize the creature. Craster spots him and knocks him out.The Night Lands Craster disarms Jon and drags him back to his keep. He expels the rangers from his home. Jeor reveals that he knew that Craster was sacrificing his sons but chose to ignore it because of his usefulness as an ally.What is Dead May Never Die

thumb|left|Qhorin and Jon Snow take Ygritte captive.

The rangers reach the ancient fortified peak known as the Fist of the First Men and await Qhorin Halfhand and his party from the Shadow Tower. When Qhorin arrives he suggests altering their tactics and using small groups to overcome Mance's lookouts in the Skirling Pass. Jon asks to join Qhorin's raiders and Jeor lets him go.The Ghost of Harrenhal

thumb|Jon and Ygritte share body heat.

Qhorin leads his men into the pass and they locate and ambush the wildling watchers. Jon realizes his opponent is a woman and hesitates to kill her. She introduces herself as Ygritte but does not give away details of Mance's plans. Qhorin leaves Jon alone to execute Ygritte. Jon is unable to do it and she escapes. He pursues and recaptures her but they become separated from Qhorin's group. Jon decides they cannot regroup with Qhorin due to the approaching night. Ygritte convinces Jon to sleep next to her to share body heat and keep warm, and then makes sexual advances towards him. Jon rejects the temptation to break his oath.The Old Gods and the New

As he unties Ygritte’s legs to continue his search for the rest of the raiders, she tells him that she knows that he is a virgin. He uses some the rope that’s binding her as a leash. As they walk, Ygritte questions Jon as to why the men of the Night’s Watch hate the wildlings. She explains that they share the blood of the First Men and just happened to be on the wrong side of the wall when it was built. She urges him to forget about his oath and live free. Another sexual advance from Ygritte prompts him to reach for his sword. She backs away and trips him with the rope when he is caught off guard. He pursues her but is ambushed and taken captive. Ygritte tells him that he should have taken her when he had the chance.A Man Without Honor

thumb|left|Jon slays Qhorin.

Ygritte brings Jon to the Lord of Bones and convinces him that Mance will want to question Jon. The Lord of Bones has a prisoner of his own; Qhorin. The Halfhand tells Jon that the rest of the men were killed while they searched for him. He urges Jon to make their deaths meaningful and become a spy within the wildling ranks. He then feigns anger with Jon until he is restrained after managing to knock Jon over.The Prince of Winterfell

In Winterfell, after Theon Greyjoy betrays House Stark and takes the castle, he refuses to flee and join the Night's Watch when he is surrounded by Ramsay Snow's men on the basis that Jon will likely kill him for betraying the Starks and apparently burning Bran and Rickon alive.Valar Morghulis

As they make their way to Mance, Ygritte continues to playfully mock Jon by tapping him on the head with the flat of his sword. Qhorin uses the distraction to advance his plan to portray Jon as a traitor to the Night's Watch. He attacks Jon, and the Lord of Bones allows them to fight. Jon is initially reluctant until Qhorin calls his father a traitor and his mother a whore. Jon slays Qhorin, stunning Ygritte and the rest of the band. Qhorin whispers a line from the Night's Watch oath to Jon with his dying breath. Jon's hands are freed, and Ygritte leads him to the crest of the mountain to look over the massive wildling encampment.

Season 3
As Jon Snow is led by Ygritte and the Lord of Bones into the main wildling camp in the Frostfangs mountains, he discovers that almost all of wildling society is on the move to escape the White Walkers, including the women and children. As they enter the camp, Jon is shocked to see a real-life giant walk past. Many of the wildlings are surprised to see Jon in his all-black Night's Watch clothing and shout crow! at his approach. Several young boys pelt Jon with ice and small stones but Ygritte shoos them away.Valar Dohaeris

Jon is led into the tent of the King-Beyond-the-Wall,Mance Rayder, where the Lord of Bones explains that he is Ned Stark's bastard son to a large man with a heavy beard who is eating chicken by the fire. He says he doesn't care, but his interest is piqued on hearing that Jon killed Qhorin Halfhand. As they talk Jon kneels before the man, whom he assumes to be Mance Rayder, and calls him your Grace. This causes all of the wildlings to burst out laughing. As it turns out this isn't Mance, but his lieutenant Tormund Giantsbane. The real Mance is an unassuming man sitting in a corner, who then introduces himself and tells Jon to stand, as no man kneels before another among the Free Folk, as they do not recognize a class of nobility in their culture.

Mance says he is glad that Jon killed Qhorin, as he had killed many of Mance's wildlings. Mance asks Jon why he wants to join them and he replies he wants to be free, but Mance doesn't believe this. Jon then explains that when the Night's Watch camped at Craster's Keep, he saw Craster leave his newborn son in the woods as an offering, and the inhuman creature that took it. Jon says that he wants to leave the Night's Watch because he is disgusted that Mormont already knew what Craster was doing but did nothing to stop it. Jon states that the First Men he is descended from defeated the White Walkers once during The Long Night, and that now he wants to fight for the side who fights for the living. Mance is satisfied and advised Jon to get a new cloak.

thumb|Mance talking to Jon.

Jon Snow then marches South with the Free Folk army and Mance Rayder. Mance explains that his army is a diverse force, formed of about ninety different groups or clans of wildlings, who speak seven different languages, and have numerous internal rivalries. However, he managed to unite them all by telling them the truth: that they will all die if they remain north of the Wall. Mance brings Jon to one of his scouts, Orell. He is sitting silently with his eyes rolled back as an eagle circles above him. Mance says that he is a warg. Jon doesn't know what that is, so Mance explains that a warg is a person who is capable of entering the mind of an animal, seeing what it sees and even controlling its actions. Orell controls his menagerie to scout miles ahead. Mance asks him what he has seen, and Orell says he saw the Fist of the First Men - and many dead crows.Dark Wings, Dark Words

As Jon Snow and the Free Folk arrive at the Fist of the First Men, they survey the bloody aftermath of assault on the Night's Watch by the White Walkers and their army of undead wights. However they only find corpses of horses and no human remains. Jon says that there were three hundred men of the Night's Watch at the Fist, and asks Mance if Mormont could still be alive. Mance says that with Mormont, it's possible he was able to escape, but that even if he did he and his men took quite a beating and are trapped miles away from the Wall with the White Walkers in close pursuit. Mance warns Jon that all of the missing corpses from the Fist are no longer his friends and brothers from the Night's Watch, but have been resurrected as undead monsters who serve the White Walkers. Jon reluctantly agrees.Walk of Punishment

Mance orders Tormund to take a force of twenty men to scale the Wall to attack Castle Black from its exposed rear. Mance's plan is for Tormund's small band to distract Castle Black by attacking their exposed southern side, at which point Mance's main army will assault it from the north. Tormund will know that Mance is in position when his army makes a massive signal fire. Mance orders Tormund to take Jon with him, as Jon knows the layout of Castle Black, and it will prove a key test of his loyalty: if it turns out that he won't really betray the Night's Watch, Tormund can easily throw him off the Wall to his death.

On their way to the Wall and Castle Black, Jon and Ygritte are gathering firewood, when the warg Orell asks him about the defenses of the Night's Watch. Orell has seen through the eyes of his eagle that there are patrols on top of the Wall and he wants to know how frequent they are. Jon says they usually sent out patrols in teams of four, two builders to inspect for structural damage and two rangers to protect them, but that the frequency of their patrols often changes. Orell says the wildlings know there are nineteen castles along the south side of the Wall, but he wants to know how many are currently manned. Jon finds this very unpleasant, but reluctantly says that only three are currently manned. Apart from Castle Black, there is also Eastwatch-by-the-Sea at the extreme eastern end, and the Shadow Tower at the western end. Jon is then asked how many men currently garrison Castle Black. Jon is very reluctant to answer, but after being threatened by Orell, he gives an exaggerated number, saying there are one thousand men (this is a lie, as Castle Black only had six hundred men before the Great Ranging, and the garrison now is closer to three hundred). Tormund tells Jon that he likes him, but if he is lying to them, he will rip his guts out through his throat.Kissed by Fire

thumb|left|Jon Snow and Ygritte enjoy a bath after making love.

Jon and Ygritte then walk away, but she steals his sword Longclaw, making him chase her to get it back. She leads him into a nearby cave. Ygritte starts disrobing, and says that she wants to make sure Jon Snow has truly come over to the wildlings' side and broken his Night's Watch vows - by making him break his oath of celibacy with her. She quickly shucks off all of her clothes and walks up to him naked. Jon is very hesitant at first, but they soon end up having sex in the cave.

Afterwards Jon and Ygritte lay together in a naked embrace and Ygritte tells Jon she wishes they could stay in this cave forever.

thumb|Jon afraid of climbing the wall.

He joins a wildling party led by Tormund Giantsbaneto climb the Wall. Beforehand, he is questioned by Ygritteabout their relationship and his allegiance to the Night's Watch, saying that he must be loyal to her instead. During the climb, Ygritte causes part of the ice to break, leaving them hanging in the air by the rope. Orell, believing them to be lost, cuts it. Jon manages to save himself and Ygritte by climbing back to the ice. The two return to the climb and reach the top, where Ygrittegazes at the North and the South, before they kiss.The Climb

thumb|left|Jon and Ygritte south of the Wall.

After surviving the perilous climb of the Wall,Jon Snow,Ygritteand the wildlingsled byTormund Giantsbanemake their way towardsCastle Blackto awaitMance Rayder'ssignal to begin the attack on theNight's Watch. Afterwards Jon confrontsOrellabout cutting his and Ygritte'srope loose on the Wall, nearly killing the both of them in the process. Orelltells Jon that he doesn't see Ygritte complaining about what happened because she is awildlingand understood what needed to be done in a pressure situation, also telling Jon that this is the reason he will never be able to keep her. During the journey through the woods, a clearly jealousOrell confronts Ygritteand says that he would be a better man for her than Jon Snow, while continuing to express his distrust in Jon. Jon also tries to persuade Ygritte that the wildlings' cause is doomed to failure, but she refuses to listen and points out that Jon is technically one of them; if it fails, so does he. She renews her passion for him and tells him bluntly that if they die, they die, but before they die they will live.The Bear and the Maiden Fair

thumb|Jon tells the wildlings that the old man is no threat.

Jon Snowand the wildling party prepare toraid an elderly horse breeder's home for his horses and gold; Jon insists that the old man is no threat to them, but OrellandTormund Giantsbaneintend to kill the man so as to stop him from alerting the Night's Watchto their presence. However, when the party attacks the farmstead, Jon surreptitiously hits a rock with his sword, alerting the old man who flees; Jon also distracts Ygritte when she tries to shoot the fleeing man with an arrow. While in the abandoned mill not far away from the wildlings, Bran and Jojen Reeddiscuss how they plan to cross the Wall, before Meera spots the old horse breeder riding nearby. After the old man is captured by the wildlings,Hodor— scaredby the thunder — begins yelling, which threatens to give away their location to the wildlings. Bran uses hisWargabilities to enter Hodor's mind and cause him to pass out.The Rains of Castamere

thumb|left|Jon attacks Orell.

Outside, Tormund moves to kill the old man, but Orell tells him to have Jon do it instead to prove his loyalty. Jon is ultimately unable to kill the innocent man, and instead Ygritte kills the man with an arrow. Realizing that Jon is still loyal to the Night's Watch, Tormund orders his men to kill Jon; Tormund restrains Ygritte to stop her trying to help Jon, and soon after Jon battles with Orell. At the urging of Jojen, Bran enters the mind ofSummer, his direwolf, to aid Jon. Summer andShaggydogkill two wildlings threatening Jon as he battles to the death with Orell and finally kills him. With the last of his strength Orell wargs into the mind of his pet eagle, which swoops down and attacks Jon, clawing him badly about the face before he fights the bird off. Jon then steals a horse and escapes, leaving Ygritte and heading back to the Wall.

Stopping to rest and tend to his injury, Jonis confronted by a furious Ygritte, who has an arrow ready to shoot him. Jon tries to talk Ygritte out of shooting him, insisting that he still loves her. Though his feelings are clearly reciprocated Ygritte is still angered by his betrayal and shoots Jon three times with her bow as he flees from her. Jon is badly injured, but his horse manages to carry him the rest of the way to Castle Black, as he hovers in and out of consciousness. Having reached safety, Jon is brought inside the castle by the guards, where he encounters Sam and Pypar, who are overjoyed to see him and insist that his injuries be taken care of.Mhysa

Season 4
thumb|Jon testifies before a panel of five sworn brothers.

Jon survives the injuries inflicted by Ygritte and has largely recovered, though he still grimaces while getting dressed. At some point, Jon has been told about Robb's death. He shares with Sam that he had always been jealous of Robb for having more of their father's affection and for being better than him at riding, fighting, and winning the affection of other girls. Still, he says he could never bring himself to hate Robb. Sam responds by saying he has felt the same way about Jon, that Jon is better than him at everything (except reading). It turns out that Sam had been sent to retrieve Jon, who has been summoned to testify before a panel of five sworn brothers, including Maestor Aemon, acting Lord Commander Alliser Thorne, and Janos Slynt. At the hearing Jon admits to killing Qhorin Halfhand, to living amongst the wildlings, and even to having bedded one. He also states that Mance intends to attack and gives intel on his plans and strength. Both Slynt and Thorne are openly hostile to Jon, disbelieving much of what he says and call for his execution. Aemon, however, realizes that Jon is speaking the truth, and the hearing ends with Jon being allowed to keep his head.Two Swords

Meanwhile, at the Dreadfort, when Theon Greyjoy is pressed for information on the whereabouts of Bran and Rickon Stark, he reluctantly tells Roose Bolton that they may be with Jon at Castle Black. On Ramsay Snow's suggestion, Jon becomes a target of the Boltons, since Ramsay reasons that even though Jon may be a bastard, he is still a son of Ned Stark, and may pose a threat to the Boltons' future hold on the North, either because the Northeners who are still furious at the Boltons for betraying the Starks may rally behind him even though he is a bastard in the Night's Watch, or because Jon may simply seek revenge on both Roose and Ramsay for their role in the Starks' downfall. Roose subsequently sends his hunter, Locke, to the Wall in order to infiltrate the Watch, use Jon to find Bran and Rickon and then kill them all.The Lion and the Rose

thumb|left|Jon speaks to the Night's Watch about the wildling threat.

After Olly arrives at Castle black, he tells the Night's Watch about the widlings attacking villages. Thorne asks for Jons opinion on protecting the smallfolk living in the  the Gift. Jon says that if the wildlings breach the Wall, they can move south by force for over a thousand miles before they reach an army that could stop them. The black brothers are interrupted by a single horn blast. It is revealed to be Grenn and Edd, who have escaped the mutineers at Craster's Keep. Jon is relieved to see them alive, but his relief turns to concern when they reveal that the mutineers remain entrenched at the keep. Jon understands that if the mutineers are captured by Mance Rayder, then the wildlings will know how vulnerable Castle Black really is. Jon tries to convince Alliser Thorne that eliminating the mutineers should be their top priority.Breaker of Chains

thumb|Jon and Grenn shows how to fight against the wildlings for the new recruits.

Jon and Grenn are training the new recruits to fight wildlings and one of the new recruits is Locke. The training session is interrupted by Thorne who continues to talk down to Jon and reminds him that he is nothing but a steward. Locke approaches Jon and they get acquainted, with Jon unaware of Locke's true purpose. Jon and Sam are talking about Bran going beyond the Wall and once he realizes that he could be at Craster's Keep, Locke comes in to tell him that Thorne has summoned him.Thorne gives him permission to attack Craster's Keep, but only with volunteers. Jon gives a speech about giving Mormont's death by the mutinies and this convinces a number of his brothers to join him in his attack, including Grenn, Edd, and Locke.Oathkeeper

thumb|left|Jon preparing to battle against Karl inside Craster's Keep.

The group attacks at night, taking the mutineers by surprise. Jon personally enters the main building to deal with Karl. The two of them are evenly matched, though Karl manages to get the upper hand by spitting in Jon's face and then kicking him to the floor. Before he can land the finishing blow, Karl is stabbed in the back by one of Craster'sdaughter-wives. Karl attempts to kill her, though it's a fatal mistake as Jon doesn't miss the opportunity to thrust Longclaw through the back of Karl's head and out of his mouth.

thumb|Jon reunites with his direwolf  Ghost shortly after the raid on Craster's Keep.

After the fight, Jon and the others count five dead amongst the Watch, including Locke whose neck was snapped in a way that terrifies Jon (Jon being completely unaware that Locke had been killed by a Bran-possessed Hodor). He then reunites with Ghost before turning to Craster's wives and offering them refuge at Castle Black. They decline, saying that after the abuse they took at other members of the Night's Watch they can't trust them and will go on their own way. Before leaving, they set a torch to Craster's Keep, burning it to the ground.First of His Name

thumb|left|Jon arrive at Castle Black with his remaining brothers from the raid at Craster's Keep.

Jon and his fellow black brothers return to Castle Black, much to the annoyance of Ser Alliser Thorne and Janos Slynt. Once Alliserspots Ghost, he orders Jon to lock up Ghost or his direwolfwill become food for the Night's Watch. Later, Jon reports that Mance Rayder's army was closing in on Craster'sKeep and will reach the Wall before the next full moon. Jon states that defending the tunnel is hopeless since the gates will not stop the giants in Mance Rayder'sarmy. He proposes they seal the tunnel, but Alliser Thorne refuses to listen. Alliser then assigns Jon and Samwell Tarly to night duties atop the Wall until the next new moon.Mockingbird

thumb|Jon and Sam shocked to hear the recent news regarding Mole's Town.

The wildlingattack on Mole's Town has reached Castle Black. Jon, Pypar, and Eddison Tollett try to comfort a distraught Sam, who believes that Gilly and her baby are dead. Grenn is furious that the wildlings slaughtered the inhabitants of Mole's Town, which included brothers of the Night's Watch. Jon concludes that if Mole's Town has been attacked, then Mance Rayder's assault on Castle Black is imminent.The Mountain and the Viper

thumb|left|Jon tries to explain relationships with Sam.

Atop the Wall, Jon and Sam are staring out into the darkness of the north and awaiting the imminent wildling invasion. Sam attempts to interrogate Jon about what it was like to be with a woman, stating that as their deaths are likely imminent, it may be his last chance to find out. Sam brings up that the vows of the Night's Watch onlyexplicitly forbidmembers from taking wives or producing children, and that other activities are open to interpretation. Jon replies glumly thatSer Alliser most likely does not care about their interpretations. When further pressed by Sam to describe lying down withYgritte, Jon attempts to explain but is unable to properly express it, proclaiming exasperatedly that he is not a bleeding poet.Jon offers to take the watch up alone so Sam can go below.The Watchers on the Wall

thumb|Jon looks at the signal just as Mance promised.

Later that night, Jon hears the horn blowing and looks north, witnessing a tremendous conflagration north of the Wall, just asMancehad promised him. Jon approachesThorne, whofinally relents and admits that they should have heeded his advice and sealed the tunnel, but grimly muses that leadership means not second-guessing oneself because of clever little twats like him.thumb|left|Jon given charge of the Wall. While they start to prepare for the massivewildlingarmy that is emerging from the woods, another horn blows from down below at Castle Black, signaling the unanticipated appearance ofTormund'sband ofwildlingsat Castle Black. Alliser decides to go down and defend the keep, leaving Janos Slynt in charge of the Wall's defenses. Even though awildlingstrike force led by two giants,  one of which is riding a mammoth, charge towards Castle Black's outer gate, JanosSlynt does nothing and breaks down, demoralizing the troops. Grennsteps in by falsely claiming thatAlliserneeds Janos back down in Castle Black, allowing Jon to take command of the Wall's defenses.

thumb|Jon fights a Thenn during the battle for Castle Black.

The black brothers continue to rain down arrows on the advancingwildlings, even killing ones that are attempting to scale the Wall.One giant, armed with a massive bow, manages to fire a huge arrow at one of the bunkers atop the Wall, and Jon is unable to warn his brothers fast enough before the giant fires again, violently killing one of his black brothers. Although Jon manages to repel most of the wildlingsattacking the outer gate, including the mammoth, one giant manages to single-handedly lift the gate. Jon, knowing the inner gate won't hold against him, sends a group of black brothers lead by Grenn to hold it at any cost. Then, Sam arrives to ask him for more men to defend the castle, so Jon decides to give Edd control of the Wall, tasks Sam with releasingGhost from his pen to assist in the fighting, and orders half a dozen other men to descend with him and finally enter the fray.

thumb|left|Ygritte dies in Jon's arms.

Jon quickly dispatches several wildlings, catching the attention of Styr, and so the two meetin single combat. Styr eventually gets the upper hand by knockingLongclaw away, brutally smashing his face into an anvil and tossing him into the blacksmith's forge. However, when Styrpicks Jon up and begins to strangle him, Jon spits blood in Styr's face, distracting him long enough for him to grab the blacksmith's hammer lying next to him and buryit intoStyr's skull.Upon killinghim, Jon turns around to findYgritte pointing her bow at him with an arrow drawn. He smiles at her, causingher to hesitate. Before either can say anything, Ygritte is shot through the heart by Olly. Jon holds her in his arms as she tells him that they should have never left the cave, and they lament circumstances that prevented them from being together as she succumbs to her wound.

thumb|Jon ventures beyond the Wall to confront Mance Rayder.

Later, while Edd forces the wildling army to retreat for the night, down below Jon deals with a heavily woundedTormund, who continues to fight despite being the only wildlingleft alive in the castle. Jon subdues him with a crossbow and orders his brothers to take him prisoner and interrogate him.The following morning,Jon discusses with Sam his suicidal solution to end the wildlingthreat: he plans to assassinate Mance Rayder, noting that he is the only thing binding the disparate wildling clans that make up the army, and his death will rob them of that purpose and leadership. Sam tries to stop him, but to no avail. As Jon prepares to leave via Castle Black's tunnel, they discover the bodies of the black brothers who held the inner gate against the giant. Grenn is amongst the casualties and Jon tells Sam that all bodies must be burned. Before Jon leaves, he remembers the promise he made toJeor Mormontand decidesto leaveLongclaw with Sam. Sam tells Jon to come back, and Jon looks and Sam and smiles unreassuringly before stepping out into the wilderness on the other side of the gate.

thumb|left|Jon convinces Stannis Baratheon to arrest Mance Rayder for questioning.

Jon finds Mance in a wildling camp north of the Wall and claims he wants to negotiate with him. Despite Mance expressing disappointment at Jon's betrayal, they drink a toast to some of their fallen friends, such as Grenn and Ygritte. Mance then notices that Jon is eyeing a cooking knife, and quickly deduces that Jon came to parley with Mance simply so he could assassinate him. Before anyone can make a move, they are interrupted by the sound of war horns. Outside, hundreds of mounted knights led by Stannis Baratheon and Davos Seaworth arrives and slaughter most of the wildlings.thumb|Jon gives Ygritte a northern burial beyond the Wall, at the request of Tormund. Jon introduces himself to Stannis as Ned Stark's son, and suggests that Stannis arrest Mance instead of executing him, reasoning that Mance had the chance to kill him, but chose not to. Out of respect for Ned Stark, Stannis accepts, and Jon also advises Stannis to burn the bodies of the dead in order to prevent them from returning as wights. During the funeral, Jon notices Melisandre staring at him through the flames. Later, Jon visits Tormund, who tells Jon that Ygritte truly loved him, and asks him to lay Ygritte to rest north of the Wall. Jon later takes his love's body into the woods and burns it, weeping as he walks away.The Children

Season 5
Jon Snow spars with Olly, along with other new recruits before being summoned by Melisandre to see Stannis atop the Wall. He questions the Red Woman if she is cold, but she states that the lord's fire lives within her. Melisandre asks if Jon is a virgin. Jon replies he is not, which she approves.
thumb|Jon tries to convince Mance to bend the knee to Stannis.
Jon meets with Stannis and Davos, kneeling before the king. With Roose Bolton ruling Winterfell, Stannis asks Jon if he wants to avenge his fallen half-brother. Jon reaffirms that he is a sworn brother of the Night's Watch. Davos states that his loyalty to the Watch is considered dubious because of his time spent with the wildlings. Nevertheless, Stannis wants Jon to retake the North with the help of the wildlings, stating that he will pardon them and declare them citizens of the realm once the war is won. Stannis will give the wildlings their lives and freedom if Mance bends the knee and swears his loyalty. He gives Jon until nightfall to convince Mance, or the King-Beyond-the-Wall will be burned.

Jon does his best to convince Mance to save his life as well as all the wildlings, but it is unsuccessful. As Mance is led to the pyre, Stannis gives him one last chance to save his life. Mance refuses and is led to the stake and Melisandre lights the pyre. Unable to watch Mance suffer, Jon storms off. Just as the fire begins to fully consume Mance, he is mercifully shot through the heart by Jon.The Wars to Come

Stannis and Davos summon Jon to discuss his future. Showing him a raven's message from Lyanna Mormont saying she would only pledge her house to a Stark of the North Stannis offers to legitimize Jon and make him Lord of Winterfell. Later that day the choosing has begun and many brothers of the Night's Watch have assembled to vote for either Ser Alliser Thorne or Ser Denys Mallister commander of the Shadow Tower. After hearing from Jon that he intends to refuse Stannis's offer and stay true to his vows, Sam nominates Jon as the third candidate and recounts how he took command of the defense of Castle Black (including the fact that Thorne fought bravely and Janos Slynt was cowering in the pantry with Gilly)and was willing to sacrifice himself to stop Mance. With the votes cast, Maester Aemon and his aide tally the tokens and a tie is declared between Jon and Thorne. Aemon feels around in his hands for his voting chip and produces a circle token and adds it to Jon's stack amidst cheers and laughter as Jon has been chosen as the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch.The House of Black and White

Jon is approached by Stannis and Davos about the offer of legitimization. As the new Lord Commander, Jon reminds the king that his place is with the Night's Watch, even though his dream was to be a Stark. Stannis respects his decision and tells Jon he intends to march on Winterfell within a fortnight since the Night's Watch cannot afford to feed both his army and the wildling prisoners. He also recommends sending Alliser Thorne to command Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and that executing the wildling prisoners would be the safest choice. Stannis then leaves, but Davos stays behind and tries to further persuade Jon to help Stannis retake the North. Davos iterates that the Night's Watch is the shield that guards the realms of men, telling Jon that it may not just mean protecting the Seven Kingdoms from Beyond the Wall, but possibly taking part in battles in order to prevent the Seven Kingdoms from suffering, such as the North while under Bolton rule.
thumb|Janos before he is executed by Jon Snow.
thumb|Small justice for Ned Stark.
During a meeting of the Night's Watch, Jon assigns a black brother to oversee the digging of a new latrine pit. He also acknowledges Ser Alliser Thorne as an experienced and valuable member of the Night's Watch by naming him First Ranger. Jon then orders Janos Slynt to man and repair Greyguard, a ruined castle. Janos refuses to obey and openly insults him, even after Jon warned him that this was a direct order. Having publicly disobeyed and insulted Jon, the Lord Commander orders Janos taken outside, and calls for Olly to fetch him Longclaw. While on the chopping block, Janos pleads the Lord Commander for mercy, but Jon executes the cowardly former Commander of the City Watch with a single blow - incidentally exacting small justice on one of the men who betrayed his own father to his death. From across the courtyard, Stannis Baratheon sees Jon behead Janos for refusing his orders, and slightly nods in approval.High Sparrow (episode)

Jon continues to train new recruits, with Stannis, Selyse, Shireen, and Melisandre observing him, with Stannis implying that he does not believe Jon to be Eddard's bastard son. Later, Sam presents him with requests to the Northern Lords for men for the Night's Watch, but he is reluctant to send one to Roose Bolton, his brother's killer, until Sam convinces him that they must stay neutral and ask for as many men as they can for the Watch, leading Jon to sign the request angrily. Melisandre enters his office and again tries to persuade him to chase the rats out of his home, but he claims that Castle Black is now his home. She attempts to seduce him, sensing a power inside his blood, but Jon rebuffs her, remembering his love for Ygritte. As Melisandre leaves, she tells him, You know nothing, Jon Snow.Sons of the Harpy (episode)

Later on, Jon consults Aemon for advice on a decision he is about to make, noting that half the men in the Night's Watch despise him for his sympathy for the wildlings, but Aemon tells him to Kill the boy, and let the man be born, in other words, do what he believes is best. Indeed, Jon's plan is to allow the wildlings to pass the Wall and settle in the North as subjects of the Seven Kingdoms or even let them join the Watch. Jon's idea is met with harsh criticism, even from his closes friends such as Edd and Olly, but Jon's goal is actually to keep the wildlings from falling into the hands of the coming White Walker army. Jon speaks alone with Tormund, requesting that he go to the wildling fishing village Hardhome to negotiate with the remaining wildlings who escaped from Stannis' surprise attack. Tormund agrees, so long as Jon accompanies him so that the wildlings will know it is not a trap. Jon borrows several of Stannis' ships for the journey. Later, as Stannis prepares to leave Castle Black for Winterfell with his army, Jon thanks him for his help, promises him he will have his ships back, and watches Stannis depart for Winterfell to take his childhood home back from the Boltons.Kill the Boy

Jon later prepares to leave Castle Black with Tormund and a group of black brothers including Edd. He entrusts the care of the Night's Watch to Thorne, who criticizes his mission, and says his farewells to Sam, who gives him a bag of dragonglass daggers in case he should run into White Walkers on the way. He hugs Sam one final time and leaves Castle Black on his mission. Later, Ramsay Bolton mentions to Sansa Stark that Jon has been made the new Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, citing Jon as an example of a bastard who rose high in the world, claiming that if Jon did it, then so can he.The Gift (episode)

Jon reaches Hardhome with his companions. After Tormund kills Rattleshirt, he and Jon go inside a hut to speak with the leaders of the tribe. Though the wildlings are prepared to kill Jon for murdering Mance, Tormund stands up for him and reveals that Jon in fact killed Mance out of mercy. Jon offers to share the dragonglass weapons with the wildlings and allow them to settle on land south of the Wall, if they promise to aid the Night's Watch in the coming battle against the White Walkers: even if they and all the men of the Seven Kingdoms are not enough to stop them, they can at least die fighting. Five thousand wildlings agree while the rest decide to stay. However, as they are preparing to leave, they are all attacked by an army of wights. Jon fights his way to the hut to retrieve the dragonglass daggers, but he is ambushed by a White Walker. They fight for a while and Jon is almost killed until he retrieves Longclaw and uses it to slay the Walker, learning that they can also be killed by Valyrian steel. Edd helps Jon to his feet and they make it back to the boats to Stannis's ships, with the wights refusing to follow them in the water. But as they leave, the Night's King himself appears at the wharf and shares a long glance with Jon, at the same time using his magic to raise all of the dead as wights before Jon's eyes. Jon looks on in obvious terror, as he knows the slaughter he just witnessed is merely a prelude to what is coming for all of Westeros.Hardhome (episode)

Jon and the others make it back to the Wall on foot, and he makes himself seen by Alliser Thorne so that they will be let inside. As the wildlings are let through Castle Black into the North, Jon laments not being able to save the rest, while Samwell comforts him, reminding him that he at least saved a few. Thorne, however, warns Jon, telling him that his kind heart will get him killed. Indeed, as Jon looks around, he sees almost all of his brothers looking at him scornfully, among them Olly, Othell Yarwyck and Bowen Marsh.The Dance of Dragons

Jon discusses the war against the White Walkers and his increasingly strained relationship with the rest of the Night's Watch with Sam, who asks for leave to take Gilly and the baby Sam to Oldtown where he will train to become a maester. Sam reasons that he is better suited to the life of a maester than a warrior, and that the Night's Watch needs to fill the gap left by the late Aemon Targaryen. Jon is reluctant, as he has few friends nowadays, and also points out that as a maester, Sam's vow of chastity will be doubly prevalent, before finding out that Sam and Gilly have had intercourse (to Jon's amusement). Jon eventually agrees to Sam's request and sees him off.

Jon meets with Davos who on behalf of Stannis, demands Jon send men to fight for Stannis in Winterfell. Jon points out that the Night's Watch, even if they do ally with Stannis, will not be enough, and the wildlings will not fight for Stannis as it isn't their fight. Their argument is broken up by the arrival of a wearied and addled Melisandre. When Davos questions her about Stannis and Shireen, she says nothing yet her sorrow is manifest, all but confirming the demise of his king and princess. Still forlorn and at a loss for words, Melisandre heads inside the castle, leaving both Jon and Davos horrified at the news.

thumb|After being stabbed multiple times by his brothers, Jon dies.
That night while reading messages, Olly comes to Jon and tells him one of the Wildlings knows of the whereabouts of his uncle Benjen. Jon quickly follows Thorne to a gathering of his Watch brothers, only to find a sign marked Traitor. Thorne and several other Black Brothers proceed to stab Jon while uttering for the Watch. As the wounded Jon kneels, gasping for breath, Olly tearfully comes forward and after a few moments of pause, stabs Jon and declares for the Watch. Jon collapses from his wounds and dies as a pool of blood stains the ice around him.

Personality
Because Jon was raised byNed StarkinWinterfell, Jon has adopted a clear moral compass and a true sense of honor, which he tries his hardest to abide by even when he must make a hard decision. He has always admired and idolized his father, but due to Catelyn Stark's cold disdain for Jon, Eddard was careful not to give him more attention than his lawful children by Catelyn. Lady Stark was never actively mean to Jon, but because he wasn't her own son she intentionally ignored him (as is common for bastard children), meaning that Jon grew up without a child-mother relationship. Nor did Jon consider Catelyn's behavior to be unusual or unexpected: it is rare for a noble to raise their bastard child alongside their lawful children, and his presence was a great insult to her honor. While his interactions with Catelyn remained awkward or nonexistent, he actually became good friends with his half-siblings, particularly Robb and Arya. Robb was of the same age as Jon so they became playmates and comrades in training, while due to her tomboyish personality Arya was also something of a social misfit like Jon, which they bonded over.

Like many bastard children, Jon had to learn to grow up quickly. This made Jon mature and perceptive beyond his age, so he could navigate his complicated relationships within the Stark household. His bastard status has also made Jon something of a loner, solemn and somber with a desire to prove himself to society and to his father. Jon thought that the best way for a bastard in his position to gain honor and respect was to join the Night's Watch, emulating his uncle Benjen, because past social status is ignored after joining the Watch. Despite his introverted demeanor, Jon is very compassionate and somewhat protective of his fellow outcasts such asSamwell Tarly,Grenn,orPyp.

In many ways, Jon has been unusually lucky for a bastard child, given how rare it is for a lord to raise one in his own castle alongside his lawful children. For all of Jon's misgivings about not knowing his mother and Catelyn ignoring and shunning him, he was never poor or hungry, but lived in a castle and always had a roof over his head. Jon was also formally trained in swordsmanship by Ser Rodrik Cassel, and excelled at it. This made Jon somewhat arrogant when he was a new recruit at Castle Black, until Tyrion pointed out that the other recruits were all far less fortunate than he was. This humbles Jon, and he changes his behavior to be the champion of the other downtrodden recruits, and helps train them by walking them through the swordplay techniques he knows.

The Starks were an interfaith household, with Eddard and Catelyn's children being exposed to not only the religion of the Old Gods of the Forest worshiped by most Northmen, but also Catelyn's devout adherence to the Faith of the Seven. Because Jon had no real interaction with Catelyn, and revered his father Eddard, he was not exposed to the Seven but proudly keeps to the Old Gods, and honors the traditions of his First Men ancestors. When Jon took his vow to become a member of the Night's Watch, he chose to do so in front of a heart tree, sacred to the Old Gods.

Jon is also fairly shy around women, and as he revealed to Samwell, he was a virgin when he joined the Night's Watch. While he was attractive enough, as a bastard son with nothing to inherit he had no realistic marriage prospects. Jon was even wary of having sex with random girls or prostitutes (as Theon did), because he was terrified of fathering a bastard of his own: having lived his life as a bastard, he felt that it wasn't a life another child should have to go through. Possibly through Theon's machinations, Jon almost had sex with Ros, but stayed himself at the last minute while still paying her for her time. This was made even more evident in comparison to Robb, who was loved and admired by most girls, obviously because he was to succeed his father as Warden of the North, which made Jon somewhat jealous of Robb but unable to hate him for it.

Appearances
TV Series
Season One Appearances|yes|yes|yes|yes|||yes|yes|yes|yes
Season Two Appearances|yes|yes|yes||yes|yes|yes|yes||yes
Season Three Appearances|yes|yes|yes||yes|yes|yes||yes|yes
Season Four Appearances|yes||yes|yes|yes||yes|yes|yes|yes
Season Five Appearances|yes|yes|yes|yes|yes|7  yes|8  yes||9  yes|10  yes

Video Game
Telltale Game Series Appearances|no|yes|yes|yes

Quotes
Spoken by Jon
Quote|I never met my mother. My father wouldn't even tell me her name. I don't know if she's living or dead. I don't know if she's a noblewoman or a fisherman's wife or a whore...|Jon Snow to Samwell Tarly|Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things
Quote|I'm the watcher on The Wall.|Jon Snow taking the black|The Pointy End
Quote|My father told me big men fall just as quick as little ones, if you put a sword through their hearts.|Jon Snow to Tormund|Valar Dohaeris
Quote|With me, lads. Castle Black's not falling tonight.|Jon Snow during the battle for Castle Black|The Watchers on the Wall
Spoken about Jon
Quote|Let me give you some advice, bastard. Never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. Wear it like armor, and it can never be used to hurt you.|Tyrion Lannister to Jon Snow|Winter is Coming
Quote|Seventeen years ago you rode off with Robert Baratheon. You came back a year later with another woman's son.|Catelyn Stark to Ned Stark|The Kingsroad
Quote|A bastard boy with nothing to inherit, off to join the ancient order of the Night's Watch. Alongside his valiant brothers in arms...|Tyrion Lannister to Jon Snow|The Kingsroad
Quote|Honor made you leave, and honor brought you back.|Jeor Mormont to Jon Snow|Fire and Blood
Quote|You're prettier than half my daughters.|Craster to Jon Snow|The North Remembers
Quote|Your death will be a gift for them south of the Wall. They'll never know what you've done. They'll never know how you died. They won't even know your damn name. But they'll be alive because some nameless bastard north of the Wall gave his life for theirs...|Qhorin Halfhand to Jon Snow|The Old Gods and the New
Quote|Snow, a bastard from the North. Now when- when good old Ned came home with some whore's baby, did you pretend to love it? No. You're not very good at pretending. You're an honest woman. You hated that boy, didn't you? How could you not hate him? The walking, talking reminder that the honorable Lord Eddard Stark fucked another woman.|Jaime Lannister antagonizes Catelyn Stark by reminding her of Jon Snow|A Man Without Honor
Dialogue a-b-a-b-a|Catelyn Stark|Many years before that, one of the boys came down with the pox. Maester Luwin said if he made it through the night, he'd live. But it would be a very long night. So I sat with him all through the darkness, listened to his ragged little breaths, his coughing, his whimpering.|Talisa Stark|Which boy?|Jon Snow. When my husband brought that baby home from the war, I couldn't bear to look at him. Didn't want to see those brown stranger's eyes staring at me. So I prayed to the gods Take him away, make him die. He got the pox and I knew I was the worst woman who ever lived. A murderer. I'd condemned this poor, innocent child to a horrible death all because I was jealous of his mother, a woman he didn't even know! So I prayed to all Seven Gods, Let the boy live. Let him live and I'll love him. I'll be a mother to him. I'll beg my husband to give him a true name, to call him Stark and be done with it, to make him one of us.|And he lived?|And he lived. And I couldn't keep my promise. And everything that's happened since then, all this horror that's come to my family, it's all because I couldn't love a motherless child.|Catelyn Stark tells Talisa Stark about Jon Snow|Dark Wings, Dark Words
Dialogue a-b-a-b|Selyse Baratheon|You think highly of this boy.|Stannis Baratheon|Lord Commander of the Night's Watch|A bastard by some tavern slut.|Perhaps. But that wasn't Ned Stark's way.|Selyse Baratheon and Stannis Baratheon discuss Jon Snow|Sons of the Harpy
Quote|Bastards can rise high in the world, like your half-brother Jon Snow. Born the bastard of Winterfell, now the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. You didn't know? Yes, he's done very well for himself.|Ramsay Bolton about Jon Snow.|The Gift (episode)
Quote|He’s prettier then both my daughters, but he knows how to fight. He’s young, but he knows how to lead. He didn’t have to come to Hardhome. He came because he needs us. And we need him.|Tormund on Jon Snow|Hardhome (episode)
Quote|You have a good heart, Jon Snow. It will get us all killed.|Alliser Thorne to Jon Snow as the wildlings pass through Castle Black|The Dance of Dragons
Conversations
Dialogue a-b-a-b|Robb Stark|Next time I see you, you'll be all in black.|Jon Snow|It was always my color.|Farewell, Snow.|And you, Stark.|Robb Stark's final words to Jon Snow|The Kingsroad
Dialogue a-b-a|Eddard Stark|There's great honor serving in the Night's Watch. The Starks have manned the wall for thousands of years, and you are a Stark. You may not have my name, but you have my blood.|Jon Snow|Is my mother alive? Does she know about me? Where I am, where I'm going? Does she care?|The next time we see each other, we'll talk about your mother. I promise.|Eddard Stark's final words to Jon Snow|The Kingsroad
Dialogue a-b-a-b|Jon Snow|I don't know what I have left to give you.|Stannis Baratheon|You can give me the North.|I can't. Even if wanted to, I'm a bastard. A Snow.|Kneel before me, lay your sword at my feet, pledge me your service and you'll rise again as Jon Stark, Lord of Winterfell.|Jon Snow and Stannis Baratheon.|The House of Black and White
Dialogue a-b|Samwell Tarly|He'll make you a Stark with the stroke of a pen?|Jon Snow|It's the first thing I ever remember wanting. I daydreamed that my father would ask the King. Just like that, I would never be the Bastard of Winterfell again.|Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly.|The House of Black and White

Image gallery

Got jon poster.jpg|Jon featured in a promotional poster for Season 1 of Game of Thrones.
Jon, Bran and Robb.jpg|Promotional image of Jon and Robb Stark watching Bran Stark practice archery in Winter is Coming.
Jon, Robb and Theon 1x01.png|Jon, Robb, and Theon visit the barber at Winterfell in Winter is Coming.
Jaime &amp; Jon.jpg|Promotional image of Jon and Jaime Lannister in The Kingsroad.
Kingsroad3.jpg|Jon says goodbye to Robb as he leaves to take the black in The Kingsroad.
Kingsroad1.jpg|Jon and Tyrion on the road to Castle Black in Kingsroad.
Jon and Alliser 1x03.jpg|Jon training under Ser Alliser Thorne at Castle Black in Lord Snow.
Jon and Benjen 1x03.png|Jon says goodbye to his uncle, Benjen Stark, as he leaves on a ranging in Lord Snow.
Jon, Sam and Pyp.jpg|Jon training with Samwell Tarly, Grenn and Pypar at Castle Black in Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things.
Jon 1x07.png|Jon calling to Ghost at the Heart Tree, north of the Wall in You Win or You Die.
Jonwight.png|Jon encounters a wight at Castle Black in The Pointy End.
Grenn.png|Grenn convincing Jon to return to Castle Black in Fire and Blood.
Jon-Snow-Kit-Harington_510.jpeg‎|Promotional image of Jon for Season 2.
Jon Snow.jpg|Jon Snow untied Ygritte's legs so she can walk in A Man Without Honor.
Jon and Ygritte.jpg|Jon keeps Ygritte on a short leash in A Man Without Honor.
GameOfThronesS3-2.jpg|Jon Snow in Season 3.
JonSnowS3Promo.jpg|Jon Snow in Valar Dohaeris.
Season4-GOT-JonSnowposter.jpg|Promotional image for Jon in Season 4. 
JonSnowTightened-S4.jpg|Jon in Season 4.
Jon_Snow_(S04E05).jpg|Jon after a victorious raid on Craster's Keep.
S04E7_-_Jon_speaks.png|Jon propose to seal the tunnel in Mockingbird.
Season-4-Episode-9-The-Watchers-on-the-Wall-game-of-thrones-37169832-2100-1397.jpg|Jon during the battle of Castle Black in The Watchers on the Wall.
Game of Throne Season 5 07.jpg|Jon Snow in Season 5. 
Jon_EW_S5.jpg|EW cover promoting Season 5.
Kit-harington-127097.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Kit-harington-maisie-williams-127101.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Maisie-williams-kit-harington-127096.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Kit-Harington-outtake-ew.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Jon Kill the Boy.jpg|Jon in Kill the Boy
Jon and Samwell The Dance of Dragons.jpg|Jon with Samwell Tarly in The Dance of Dragons
Jon The Dance of Dragons.jpg|Jon in The Dance of Dragons
TLL Pre-Release 4.png|Jon as he appears in the video game, along with Gared Tuttle.


Family tree
House Stark family tree

Behind the scenes
On the Season 3 Blu-ray, Jon narrates theHistories &amp; Lore video The North.

Harington is contractually obligated to keep his hair long enough in the off-season that he can return to playing Jon Snow during actual filming - it would take longer than a full year for his hair to grow back to its full length need for the role. To achieve Jon Snow's signature long dark hair, the TV series's hair designer Kevin Alexander first has to dye Harington's hair slightly darker; Then, to create the effect of dirty ringlets, he dampens the hair and then puts in a mixture of wax and hair putty before the hair totally dries. This combination keeps the curls soft and movable - if they were put on dry hair it would make it stiff.http://fashionista.com/2013/06/game-of-thrones-hair-designer-answers-all-our-pressing-questions

In the books
In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Jon is 14 years old when the story begins. Jon resembles his father with a lean build, long face, and gray eyes, more than any of his true-born children. Eddard refuses to reveal who Jon's mother is. Jon feels alienated from his family because of his bastard status and the coldness of Lady Catelyn, who sees him as an interloper in her family and resents that he lives at Winterfell with her true-born children. At the feast to welcome King Robert Jon is made to sit with the commoners, far from his father and brothers, as Catelyn fears that the king or queen would take insult at sharing a table with a bastard. This coincides with the visit by his uncle Benjen, and (emboldened by having more than he is used to drinking) makes Jon realize that his future may lie outside Winterfell's walls. His uncle frustrates Jon by telling him to wait a few years before deciding, but when Eddard decides to go to King's Landing, Lady Catelyn refuses to allow Jon to remain behind at Winterfell. Catelyn was relieved because when Jon joined the Watch he forsook any right to inheritance, and could never challenge her own sons for Winterfell. Nor did Catelyn have to pressure Jon into joining: he went to the Wall of his own volition, albeit because he had been raised on legends of the former glories of the Night's Watch. He is crestfallen to discover that the Watch is now a glorified penal colony, full of murderers, rapers, and other outcasts, and few of the recruits are like his uncle.

When Qhorin Halfhand's men attack the wildling lookouts, Jon kills one, but hesitates killing the other when he realizes Ygritte is a woman. Jon says they can question her, but they don't learn much. Jon is sent by Qhorin to kill her, but instead he lets her go. Jon returns to Qhorin and later confesses that he let Ygritte go, having judged that unarmed and on foot, she was no further threat to them. Qhorin isn't too worried and says it was a test to learn what Jon would do. The ranging goes badly as they are pursued and tracked, losing horses and men until only Jon and Qhorin are left. Before they are caught, he orders Jon to do whatever it takes to prove himself to the wildlings: take any oath, burn his cloak, curse its leaders. Qhorin insists to him that one black brother inside of Mance Rayder's camp is worth a hundred at the Wall. When captured, Qhorin goes berserk when Jon asks to join the wildlings, and attacks him, intentionally letting Jon kill him to gain the wildlings' trust.

Jon severely burned his right hand when he killed the wight Othor to save Lord Commander Mormont's life. While he lost no function in it, as a result of the burns his right hand and some of his forearm were left covered in scar tissue, which would never heal back to normal. People tend not to notice, because in the cold temperatures at the Wall and beyond, Jon and other members of the Night's Watch usually wear heavy gloves over both hands.

After Jon kills Orell, part of Orell's consciousness survives by warging into his eagle, after which Orell's mind controlling the eagle's body attempts to claw out Jon's eye with its talons (which occurred in Season 3 of the TV series). The attack leaves permanent deep scars over Jon's eye. However, rather than disfiguring him, characters within the narrative point out that they think it makes him ruggedly handsome. Stereotypical Fantasy heroes usually never get significantly hurt, at worst getting scars running over their eyes which make them look cool. Author George R.R. Martin spent much of the books deconstructing or subverting traditional Fantasy literature stereotypes, making Westeros a gritty and realistic setting where instead of all of the main characters miraculously surviving through battles unscathed, some are horribly maimed (i.e. Jaime Lannister and Tyrion Lannister do not get dashingly roguish scars over their eyes - they outright lose their sword hand and nose, respectively). In contrast, Jon Snow actually does behave like a traditionally heroic character, but put in the dark setting of Westeros - and as a result, Jon does end up getting cool hero scars over his eye.

In the books, after Jon is elected the new Lord Commander, he gives Mance Rayder a quick death and executes Janos Slynt for insubordination, and is somewhat disappointed that Alliser Thorne did not attempt to defend him. Though he initially has the support of almost the entire Night's Watch, he earns the distrust of most by proposing an alliance with the wildlings so that they will not fall into the hands of the White Walkers. He also gives Stannis Baratheon valuable advice on how to win the allegiance of Northern Lords by liberating Deepwood Motte from the Ironborn. In the meantime, Melisandre tells Jon of visions she has had concerning daggers in the dark and a Northern girl riding for Castle Black on a horse from Winterfell. Jon initially assumes the girl to be Arya Stark, whom he hears is marrying Ramsay Bolton (though he is unaware that it is Jeyne Poole, Sansa's best friend, in a disguise), but it turns out to be Alys Karstark, who informs Jon of the Karstarks' plan to betray Stannis to the Boltons, which leads Jon to lose faith in Melisandre. Melisandre, however, reveals to Jon that Mance Rayder is actually still alive, since she used her powers to disguise him as Rattleshirt (and Rattleshirt as Mance, which led him to being burned in Mance's place), and Jon sends Mance to rescue Arya from Winterfell. Jon also meets Tycho Nestoris, a representative of the Iron Bank of Braavos who has come to negotiate with Stannis. Jon secures a loan from Nestoris for ships and food for the Night's Watch, and instructs him on where to find Stannis and warn him of the Karstarks' betrayal. Jon arranges a mission to Hardhome to rescue the remaining wildlings there, but does not join the mission and instead hears that it went terribly wrong. As Jon prepares to head out to Hardhome, he receives a letter from Ramsay, who taunts Jon by claiming that he has killed Stannis, destroyed his army and taken Mance prisoner, demanding Melisandre, Stannis's family, Mance's sister-in-law and several of Stannis's court as hostages, threatening to march on the Wall and kill Jon if he does not agree. Jon instead decides to hunt down and kill Ramsay himself, but as this means officially deserting the Night's Watch, it serves as the final straw for the black brothers, who mutiny against him and stab him numerous times until he collapses. Black smoke emanates from one of his wounds and he utters Ghost before losing consciousness, but the book leaves is unclear as to whether or not Jon has been killed.

Unbeknownst to Jon, Robb intends to legitimize his half-brother and name him his heir, in case he dies without issue. Robb and Catelyn believe that Bran and Rickon are dead, and probably Arya too, and after learning that Sansa has been married to Tyrion Lannister, Robb is determined to stop the Lannisters gaining control of the North through her. Catelyn pleads with Robb not to choose Jon, to no avail. The Red Wedding takes place soon after, and it is not known what became of Robb's decision.

See also
*AWOIAF (MAJOR spoilers from the books)

References
Reflist|2
Watch navbox
Stark navbox

de:Jon Schnee
es:Jon Nieve
fr:Jon Snow
it:Jon Snow
pl:Jon Snow
pt-br:Jon Snow
ru:Джон Сноу
zh:琼恩·雪诺
lt:Jon Snow